# F1 Season Notable Events Corpus
# Generated by scraping Wikipedia lead sections.
# Keywords Used for Filtering: accident, crash, collision, incident, controversy, protest, penalty, penalised, penalized, disqualified, fatal, injured, injury, record, maiden, first win, debut, retired, champion, clinch, decider, controversial, unsafe, failure, tyre, tire, engine, suspension, gearbox, safety car, red flag, investigation, wet race, strategy, overtake, dominant, comeback, historic, scandal


1950 Season

It featured the inaugural FIA World Championship of Drivers , which was contested over seven races between 13 May and 3 September 1950.
The only one outside of Europe was the Indianapolis 500 , which was run to AAA National Championship regulations.
Finally, the season also included several non-championship races for Formula One cars.
Alfa Romeo entered a supercharged 158 , a well-developed pre-war design that debuted in 1938, and managed to win all six races they competed in.
But Fangio did not score points in the other three races, while Farina finished fourth in Belgium , handing him the championship.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1950 FIA World Championship of Drivers .
The podium was completed by his teammates Luigi Fagioli and Reg Parnell , while the remaining Alfa driver, Juan Manuel Fangio, was forced to retire after experiencing problems with his engine.
Scuderia Ferrari made their World Championship debut around the streets of Monaco.
A first-lap accident caused by the damp track had eliminated nine of the nineteen starters—including Farina and Fagioli—while González, who had incurred damage in the pile-up, retired on the following lap.
Villoresi, although delayed by the accident, had made his way through the field to second place but was forced to retire with an axle problem.
The Indianapolis 500, the third round of the inaugural World Championship of Drivers held at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway in Indianapolis, Indiana, in the United States, was won by the Kurtis Kraft - Offenhauser of Johnnie Parsons , ahead of the Diedt -Offenhausers of Bill Holland and Mauri Rose .
Alfa Romeo's dominance continued when the World Championship returned to Europe for the Swiss Grand Prix at the tree-lined Bremgarten circuit outside Bern.
Ascari and Villoresi were both able to compete with the third Alfa of Fagioli in the early stages, although both had retired by the ten-lap mark.
Farina took the win and the fastest lap, finishing just ahead of Fagioli, while Rosier, in third place due to Fangio's retirement, took Talbot-Lago's first podium.
His lead, however, was short-lived, and he was forced to retire when his engine blew up.
The power of the Alfas suited this public road circuit- made up entirely of long straights, and Farina, starting from second, led for the first quarter of the race before fuel problems put him to the back of the field.
He fought back to third before he was forced to retire (he was ultimately classified seventh).
Fagioli finished second for the fourth time out of five starts, while Peter Whitehead , in a privateer Ferrari, took a maiden podium in his first start of the season.
Fangio took the championship lead as a result of his victory.
The final championship round of the season was the Italian Grand Prix at the Monza Autodrome near Milan, and all three of the regular Alfa Romeo drivers were in contention for the title.
Fagioli's only chance of becoming World Champion was if he won the race and set the fastest lap; even then, he would need Farina to finish no higher than third, and Fangio would have to score no points at all.

1951 Season

It featured the second World Championship of Drivers , which was contested over eight races between 27 May and 28 October 1951.
The season also included several non-championship races for Formula One cars.
Juan Manuel Fangio won his first Drivers' Championship, beating reigning champion and Alfa Romeo teammate Nino Farina , as well as several drivers from their main rival, Ferrari .
Alfa Romeo has not won any Formula One championship since.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1951 FIA World Championship of Drivers .
The Ferraris were able to capitalize on the inefficiency of the Alfa's very thirsty engines, particularly at Silverstone.
Although Alfas won four races, with Fangio taking the championship, Ferrari's three victories spelled the end for the Alfas.
BRM made their only championship appearance with the V16 at Silverstone, and the old, slow Talbots were increasingly outclassed.
Only the best four of eight scores counted towards the world championship.
Although the official championship season would start in late May in Switzerland, a handful of non-championship events were to be run.
A week after the BRDC International Trophy race, the Formula One Championship season started in Switzerland at the very dangerous and tree-lined Bremgarten public road circuit near Bern around the time the Monaco Grand Prix would have been held, but that historic race was not held this year.
Alfa Romeo, the dominant team in 1950 with its supercharged 159 Alfetta, took the first five places on the grid, except 3rd, which Luigi Villoresi took in a Ferrari.
But Fangio made no mistake and won the race from Piero Taruffi in a Ferrari and Farina, whose decision to run the race without changing tires proved wrong.

1952 Season

It featured the 3rd World Championship of Drivers , which was contested over eight races between 18 May and 7 September 1952.
The season also included several non-championship races and a separate East German Championship .
The Formula One championship rounds were run under Formula Two regulations out of fear for a small number of entrants.
The World Drivers' Championship was won by Alberto Ascari driving for Scuderia Ferrari .
Neither British driver nor British constructor won a championship round.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1952 FIA World Championship of Drivers .
* Car entered only in the Indianapolis 500 race For the second successive season, the championship's opening round was the Swiss Grand Prix, held at the Bremgarten Circuit in Bern.
Farina led from the start until he retired with magneto failure, leaving Taruffi to win his only championship Grand Prix and take the extra point for the fastest lap.
Farina took over the car of his other teammate, Andre Simon, and was battling debutant Jean Behra for second place before both experienced mechanical trouble, Farina again unable to continue.
As usual, the Indianapolis 500 had little bearing on the championship result, although regular Ferrari driver Alberto Ascari did compete, retiring after 40 laps.
Ascari returned to Ferrari for round 3 of the championship at Spa-Francorchamps, with Maserati still absent as they developed their A6GCM.
Jean Behra again impressed as he led the opening lap before falling behind the Ferrari juggernaut and eventually retiring after an incident with the third Ferrari of Piero Taruffi.
Ascari led all the way from pole position to assume the championship lead and achieve his fourth career victory, drawing him level with his teammate Nino Farina who finished second.

1953 Season

It featured the 4th World Championship of Drivers , which was contested over nine races between 18 January and 13 September 1953.
The season also included several non-championship races and a separate East German Championship .
As in 1952 , all races counting towards the Formula One championship, except the Indianapolis 500 , were held for cars complying with Formula Two regulations.
A couple of non-championship races were still run under Formula One regulations.
The World Drivers' Championship was won by Alberto Ascari driving for Scuderia Ferrari .
Ascari became the first driver since the inception of the championship in 1950 to successfully defend his title.
For the first time, a championship event was included outside of Europe (with the exception of the Indianapolis 500): the 1953 Argentine Grand Prix .
It was marred by an accident involving 1950 champion Nino Farina , who crashed into an unprotected crowd, killing nine spectators.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1953 FIA World Championship of Drivers .
The 1953 season started in Argentina , the first championship Formula One Grand Prix outside of Europe (with the exception of the Indianapolis 500 ).
Alberto Ascari and Ferrari had dominated 1952 , but Juan Manuel Fangio , the 1951 champion returning after a year away, at the new Maserati works team were expected to put up a good fight.
The race continued, Fangio retired with a broken transmission and Ascari finished a lap ahead of Villoresi and Maserati's José Froilán González .
The Indianapolis 500 was included in the Formula One championship, but no F1 drivers attended.
Both González and Fangio retired with a broken rear axle .
Villoresi retired when his injection failed.
In the Drivers' Championship, Alberto Ascari ( Ferrari ) was leading with 17 points.
Juan Manuel Fangio delivered and set pole position , ahead of championship leader Alberto Ascari and teammate José Froilán González .
González took the lead at the start and the two Maseratis streaked away, until they retired with mechanical issues two laps from each other.
Farina retired as well, leaving Ascari and Villoresi to finish 1–2, ahead of Onofre Marimón on his debut for Maserati.

1954 Season

It featured the fifth World Championship of Drivers , which was contested over nine races between 17 January and 24 October 1954.
The season also included several non-championship races for Formula One cars.
Juan Manuel Fangio won his second Drivers' Championship, after previously winning it in 1951 .
After the first couple of races, he switched teams, going from Maserati to Mercedes-Benz , making him the only F1 driver in history to win a championship driving for more than one team in the same season.
After the championship had been run under Formula Two regulations for two seasons, the maximum engine displacement was increased to 2.5 litres for 1954.
Argentinian Onofre Marimón suffered a fatal accident during practice for the German Grand Prix .
It was the first fatality during an F1 championship weekend.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1954 FIA World Championship of Drivers .
The maximum allowed engine displacement was increased from 2.0 to 2.5 litres for naturally-aspirated engines .
The limit for compressed engines was set at 750 cc , as it had been since 1952 , but no constructor would build one before they were outright banned in 1961 .
The championship started off with the Argentine Grand Prix .
1950 's champion Nino Farina qualified on pole position - he is the oldest F1 driver in history to start on pole - ahead of teammate José Froilán González and local hero Juan Manuel Fangio in the Maserati.
A second period of rain caused the order to switch back around, putting Fangio ahead of the two Ferraris, but when the Maserati driver pitted for new tyres, he was back in third.
Ferrari's team manager Nello Ugolini protested his rivals' pit stop , claiming they had too many mechanics working on the car.
Confident that the protest would be granted, he signalled the leading pair to bring the cars home and not fight the charging Fangio.
But then the FIA rejected Ferrari's protest and upheld the results, granting Fangio his first home win.
The Indianapolis 500 was included in the Formula One championship, but no F1 drivers attended.
In qualifying for the Belgian Grand Prix , Fangio broke his 1951 lap record and started on pole position, ahead of González and Farina.
González was allowed into the lead when Fangio messed up the start, but when his engine cut out on the opening lap, Farina was in front.
When his helmet visor broke on lap 10, he pitted to put on his goggles , but then recovered to pass Farina for the second time, just before the Ferrari engine cut out, sending the Italian out of the race.

1955 Season

It featured the sixth World Championship of Drivers , which was contested over seven races between 16 January and 11 September 1955.
The season also included several non-championship races for Formula One cars.
Juan Manuel Fangio won his second consecutive World Championship title, his third in total.
This was the last championship for a Mercedes driver until 2014 .
Italian Mario Alborghetti died at the non-championship Pau Grand Prix .
Alberto Ascari , World Champion of 1952 and 1953 , was killed while testing a Ferrari 750 Monza at Monza .
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1955 FIA World Championship .
For the third year in a row, the championship opened with the Argentine Grand Prix .
Next to him on the front row started two double World Champions: Alberto Ascari in the Lancia and Juan Manuel Fangio in the Mercedes .
On lap 21, Ascari crashed out by himself, leaving González in the lead.
However, he was still recovering from his accident in the 1954 RAC Tourist Trophy and got exhausted.
Fearing he could not hold Fangio behind, he pitted to hand the car to teammate and 1950 World Champion Nino Farina .
Fangio pitted as well, for new tyres and to cool off, while Moss retired due to a vapor lock in the fuel pump .
Two Ferraris completed the podium, but each had seen three different drivers behind the wheel, so Fangio had an immediate lead in the championship.
A new rule to qualifying had been added: only the times recorded in the first practice session on Thursday afternoon would count for the front row of the grid and, thus, for pole position.
After the two drivers behind Moss pitted, Ascari was left in a lonely third place until, at half-distance, Fangio stopped on track with a broken transmission and, on lap 81, Moss's engine blew up.
Ascari took the unexpected lead of the race, but mere seconds later, crashed coming out of the harbour chicane and plunged into the water.
The Indianapolis 500 was included in the Formula One championship, but no F1 drivers attended.
In the Drivers' Championship, Maurice Trintignant ( Ferrari ) was leading with 11 1 3 {\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{3}}} points, ahead of Juan Manuel Fangio ( Mercedes ) with 10 and Bob Sweikert ( Kurtis Kraft ) with 8.

1956 Season

It featured the seventh World Championship of Drivers , which was contested over eight races between 22 January and 2 September 1956.
The season also included nine non-championship races for Formula One cars.
Juan Manuel Fangio driving for Ferrari won his third consecutive championship.
It was his fourth in total, a record that would not be beaten until Michael Schumacher in 2002 .
None of the championship races were won by a British constructor .
At 29 October, veteran racer Louis Rosier crashed in a sports car race at Montlhéry .
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1956 FIA World Championship .
Argentinian racing driver Juan Manuel Fangio had already won three Formula One World Championships , while driving for three different constructors .
The latter, however, spun off in sympathy and retired on the spot.
Fangio made an inspiring recovery drive until he was in second place and, on lap 70, took the lead when his 1955 teammate Moss's engine failed.
As it had been since the inclusion of the Argentine Grand Prix on the calendar, there was a four-month gap to the second race in the championship, the Monaco Grand Prix .
Hurrying to turn round, he got in the way of Luigi Musso and Harry Schell , who avoided the Ferrari but in doing so, both crashed out.
But through the narrow streets of Monte Carlo , there is little margin for error and the reigning champion tapped a wall, bent his rear wheel and retreated into the pits.
The Indianapolis 500 was included in the Formula One championship, but no active drivers attended.
Former champion Nino Farina did, but he failed to qualify.
In the Drivers' Championship, Jean Behra ( Maserati ) was leading with 10 points, ahead of Juan Manuel Fangio ( Scuderia Ferrari ) on 9 and Stirling Moss (Maserati) and Pat Flaherty (winner of the Indianapolis 500 ) on 8.
The Belgian Grand Prix began with a tense qualifying battle, in which the Maseratis and Ferraris seemed evenly matched, until Juan Manuel Fangio set a lap that was more than ten seconds under the lap record and almost five seconds faster than his closest competitor.
However, as it had happened already two times this year, the reigning champion fell back at the race start.
Things took a turn when Moss's left rear wheel came off and Castellotti retired with a broken transmission .
Moss took over the car from one of his teammates but was over a lap down, while Fangio was setting multiple lap records.

1957 Season

It featured the 8th World Championship of Drivers which was contested over eight races between 13 January and 8 September 1957.
The season also included nine non-championship races for Formula One cars.
Juan Manuel Fangio driving for Maserati won his fourth consecutive championship.
It was his fifth in total, a record that would not be beaten until Michael Schumacher in 2003 .
Excluding the Indianapolis 500 , which counted towards the F1 championship although there was very little overlap in contestants, every race was won by a constructor with their own engine.
On 14 March, Ferrari driver Eugenio Castellotti suffered a fatal accident when he tested a new chassis for the team at Modena Autodrome .
Trying to beat the lap record by Maserati's Jean Behra , he hit a chicane in a bad way and was thrown out of the car.
On 12 May, Ferrari lost another driver: Alfonso de Portago was competing in that year's Mille Miglia when his tire blew and his car spun into the crowd.
Herbert MacKay-Fraser made his debut with BRM in the French Grand Prix but was killed a week later in a sports car race at Reims-Gueux .
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1957 World Championship of Drivers .
Castellotti and Alfonso de Portago were killed during the season (neither in Formula One crashes), making this a truly disastrous year for Ferrari.
Between them, Fangio and Moss won every championship race of the season except the Indianapolis 500 , with Fangio taking four victories to Moss' three.
While Moss sat in the pits, Castellotti led but was then overtaken by Behra.
Castelotti had lost his third position after a spin, so now Hawthorn was leading the charge, although both he and Musso would retire after a while with clutch problems.
A non-championship race was held in Syracuse on the southern Italian island of Sicily; Peter Collins won this race for Ferrari.

1958 Season

It featured the 9th World Championship of Drivers , the first International Cup for F1 Manufacturers and five non-championship Formula One races.
The World Championship was contested over eleven races between 19 January and 19 October 1958.
The Indianapolis 500 counted towards the Drivers' Championship but not the Manufacturers' Cup.
British driver Mike Hawthorn driving for Ferrari won his first and only Drivers' Championship after a close battle with compatriot Stirling Moss there by bocoming the first British diriver to become Formula One World Champion.
Following the Portuguese Grand Prix , Hawthorn faced a penalty, but Moss sportingly spoke up for him.
It was the first of only two occasions in Formula One history where a driver won the championship, having won only one race in the season, the other being Keke Rosberg in 1982 .
After Collins' accident, Hawthorn had decided to retire from racing at the end of the season.
So he did, but then, tragically, lost his life in a road accident three months later.
Since the early 1900s, Grand Prix racing had been dominated by front-engined cars , but this was the last championship to be won by one.
From 1959 on, mid-engined cars, with their better road holding, increased driving comfort, lighter weight, and ease on tires and mechanical components (particularly brakes ), would have the upper hand.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1958 FIA World Championship .
Five-time and reigning champion Juan Manuel Fangio qualified on pole position in one of the Maseratis he took over from the works team , ahead of the Ferraris of Mike Hawthorn and Peter Collins .
Around half distance, however, the Argentinian had to pit for fresh rear tyres .
He passed the Vanwall on lap 18, which retired shortly after with a loose spark plug , and took the lead on lap 27, when Behra's brakes seemed to fade.
In the next phase, Stirling Moss, who was back at Vanwall, was fastest and briefly took the lead, before his engine started misfiring and he, too, retired.
Moss kept out of trouble and took the win, while his teammates both retired.
Pat O'Connor died in a spectacular first-lap pileup , while reigning USAC champion Jimmy Bryan won the race.
In the F1 Drivers' Championship, Stirling Moss ( Vanwall ) was leading with 17 points, ahead of Luigi Musso ( Ferrari ) and Maurice Trintignant ( Cooper ).
The Manufacturers' Championship saw Cooper take the lead with 19 points, ahead of Ferrari (14) and Vanwall (8).

1959 Season

It featured the 10th World Championship of Drivers , the second International Cup for F1 Manufacturers and five non-championship Formula One races.
The World Championship was contested over nine races between 10 May and 12 December 1959.
At the beginning of the year, there were no world champions on the grid.
Five-time champion Juan Manuel Fangio had retired after last year , as had reigning champion Mike Hawthorn .
Tragically, just three months after Hawthorn was crowned, he lost his life in a road accident.
Going into the final race, there were three drivers that could clinch their first championship.
Jack Brabham driving for Cooper ran out of fuel but pushed his car over the line to win his first Drivers' Championship.
He was the first Australian champion.
Two F1 drivers lost their lives in racing accidents.
After two teammates had already crashed, Behra's Porsche 718 RSK went over the top of the 43 degree banked turn and he incurred a skull fracture when he struck a flagpole with his head.
And Ivor Bueb crashed his BRP Formula Two car at the Charade Circuit .
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1959 FIA World Championship .
The leading trio were nose-to-tail until, on lap 22, Behra's Ferrari developed an oil leak and retired.
At half distance, only eight cars were left running, with Moss at a sizeable lead over Brabham and Tony Brooks , third in the championship last year.
It would be the last year in which the race counted towards the F1 championship.
For the Dutch Grand Prix , Jo Bonnier , driving for the BRM works team, clinched his first career pole, ahead of Brabham, who achieved the same lap time but at a later moment, and Moss, two tenths behind.
Aston Martin were making their debut this race, but both cars soon retired with engine failure.
A mere three laps later, however, the Cooper's transmission failed, causing Moss to retire from the lead for the second time in a row.
Pole position was for Brooks, ahead of championship leader Brabham and Ferrari teammate Phil Hill .
Fifth-starting Moss, who had moved to the BRP team, passed three cars into the first corner, but was overtaken himself by seventh-starting Gregory.
Gregory retired when he was overcome by the summer heat, which reached 44 °C (111 °F) in the sun.
Graham Hill retired when one of those rocks went through his radiator .
While Trintignant stopped to cool off, Bonnier's engine had seized, but the Swede pushed his car a full kilometer back to the pits.
Moss got up to second briefly but then retired when his clutch failed.
He asked for a push start from bystanders, knowing that it would get him disqualified, but longing for the shade of the garages.

1960 Season

It featured the 11th World Championship of Drivers , the third International Cup for F1 Manufacturers and five non-championship Formula One races.
The World Championship was contested over ten races between 7 February and 20 November 1960.
Jack Brabham driving for Cooper won his second consecutive Drivers' Championship.
It was the last year of the 2.5 litre formula, the FIA mandating 1.5 litre engines from 1961 on.
Rear-engined cars (from Cooper, Lotus, Porsche and BRM ) were distinctly more successful than the front-engined designs (from Ferrari, Scarab and Aston Martin).
It was the last victory for a front-engined car in a World Championship race.
Three drivers died in racing accidents: American Harry Schell during practice for the 1960 BRDC International Trophy , and Britons Chris Bristow and Alan Stacey , both killed at the Belgian Grand Prix at Spa-Francorchamps.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1960 FIA World Championship .
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Dunlop .
The best six scores counted towards the championship, increased from five from the previous season.
The teams came down to Argentina from Europe in February to start the 1960 season, having competed at the last round of the 1959 championship in Sebring, Florida, in the United States only two months previously.
The Lotus team had come out with an all-new mid-engined car, the 18 , and were expected to be competitive.
On lap 42. he went out with a broken suspension.
Ireland was promoted to second, but both Graham Hill and Brabham retired, so Bruce McLaren was third.
With 12 laps to go, Bonnier suffered engine trouble, and Ireland went into the lead only to have his gear-linkage jam, so he too slipped back, leaving McLaren to win.
There had been a non-championship round at the Goodwood circuit near the southern English coast, the Glover Trophy, won by Innes Ireland in a Lotus.

1961 Season

It featured the 12th World Championship of Drivers, the 4th International Cup for F1 Manufacturers , and numerous non-championship Formula One races.
The World Championship was contested over eight races between 14 May and 8 October 1961.
Phil Hill driving for Ferrari won his first and only Drivers' Championship after his teammate and rival Wolfgang von Trips was killed during the Italian Grand Prix , the penultimate race of the season.
Hill was the first American-born champion (and, so far, the only one, because 1978 champion Mario Andretti was born in Italy).
Ferrari won its first Manufacturers' Championship.
New regulations only allowed naturally aspirated engines with a maximum capacity of 1,500 cc (92 cu in), effectively adopting the Formula Two engine rules as used from 1957 to 1960.
The English teams threatened to boycott, because the change was communicated only shortly before the season started, but the protests subsided.
Although Enzo Ferrari was opposed as well, the manufacturer got it right by designing their first mid-engined car , the legendary 156 "Sharknose", and won five out of the eight championship races.
Besides Wolfgang von Trips, two other F1 drivers died this year: Italian Giulio Cabianca during a test at the Modena Autodrome and Briton Shane Summers during the non-championship Silver City Trophy .
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1961 FIA World Championship .
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Dunlop .
Formula One effectively adopted the Formula Two engine regulations, as used from 1957 to 1960, by reducing the maximum engine capacity to 1,500 cc (92 cu in) and only allowing naturally aspirated engines .
Furthermore: Numerous technical innovations were made mandatory from the aspect of safety: The number of championship points awarded to a race winner was increased to nine.
Before the 1961 Formula One season was to start in Monaco in mid-May, many non-championship races were held throughout Europe.
Still, two top drivers— John Surtees and defending champion Jack Brabham —were in attendance.

1962 Season

It featured the 13th World Championship of Drivers , the 5th International Cup for F1 Manufacturers , and numerous non-championship Formula One races.
The World Championship was contested over nine races between 20 May and 29 December 1962.
Graham Hill driving for BRM won his first Drivers' Championship when rival Jim Clark retired from the last race.
BRM also won the Manufacturers' Championship for the first time, and it would be the only time.
Double World Champion Jack Brabham formed his own team and debuted the Brabham BT3 in the United States Grand Prix , becoming the first ever F1 driver to score championship points in a car bearing his own name.
Ricardo Rodríguez suffered a fatal crash during practice for his home race, the non-championship Mexican Grand Prix .
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1962 FIA World Championship .
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Dunlop .
Around the same time, the front wishbone broke on Surtees's Lola and he had a heavy crash but escaped unhurt.
Bruce McLaren ( Cooper ) was running second before he retired with a broken gearbox .
Reigning champion Phil Hill ( Ferrari ) was running third at the time, inheritering second but later getting overtaken by Trevor Taylor (Lotus).
A chain reaction led to an accident with six drivers, three of whom retired on the spot.
On lap 55, however, his clutch gave out and he had to retire.
But Hill was not yet out of the woods, with his BRM engine starting to smoke and McLaren, back in second, getting ever closer.
On lap 93, Hill's engine gave up with a bang, although he still scored a point, as he was classified in sixth.
McLaren was challenged by Phil Hill but held on to score his first win in two years.
Clark held on to take the win, but getting up to the final corner of lap 26, Taylor crashed with Mairesse, the Lotus cutting down a telegraph pole and the Ferrari landing upside down on fire.
This record stood until Jenson Button broke it in the 2000 Brazilian Grand Prix .
In the Drivers' Championship, Graham Hill ( BRM ) was leading with 16 points, ahead of 1961 champion Phil Hill ( Ferrari ) with 14 and Jim Clark ( Lotus ) with 9.
In the Manufacturers' Championship, BRM went ahead with 16 points, ahead of Lotus (15) and Ferrari (14).
The French Grand Prix saw Jim Clark qualify on pole position in his Lotus , ahead of championship leader Graham Hill for BRM and Bruce McLaren for Cooper .
Fifth-starting John Surtees was in second after the first lap and challenged Hill for the lead, but had to pit when his engine had trouble picking up fuel.
Clark took the lead, but was caught by Hill within three laps, confirming to the Lotus team that their car was not running well, and they decided to retire from the race.
Further drama ensued when Hill's BRM engine had jammed with ten laps to go, paving the way for Dan Gurney taking his first and Porsche 's only win.

1963 Season

It featured the 14th World Championship of Drivers , the 6th International Cup for F1 Manufacturers , and numerous non-championship Formula One races.
The World Championship was contested over ten races between 26 May and 28 December 1963.
Jim Clark driving for Lotus won his first Drivers' Championship with three races to go.
He won seven races in the championship, a number that would not be beaten until 1988 , when Ayrton Senna won eight, and a win percentage that nearly beat Alberto Ascari 's record from 1952 .
Lotus also won the Manufacturers' Championship for the first time.
Every pole position and race in the 1963 championship were won by British drivers, the first time that this was achieved by any single nation.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1963 FIA World Championship .
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Dunlop .
With little driver changes in the front-running teams and constructors withholding to introduce new designs to the narrow streets of Monte Carlo , the battle between the 1962 championship protagonists was expected to restart.
Only five drivers were guaranteed a starting place: the previous World Champions or winners of the Monaco Grand Prix .
Reigning champion Graham Hill started second in his BRM , while John Surtees ( Ferrari ) and Richie Ginther (BRM).
Then suddenly, his gearbox jammed and his wheels locked.
Clark was still suffering from gearbox issues, so Hill took pole position, ahead of Dan Gurney ( Brabham ) and local hero Willy Mairesse (Ferrari).
Then when Hill's gearbox broke, his win looked sealed, expect the heaviest storm of the day flooded the track.
Five drivers crashed and it was discussed to stop the race, but Clark cautiously completed the laps, ahead of McLaren and Gurney.
Hill's engine had enough on lap 58 and he was forced to pit, letting Surtees into second and Gurney up to third.
In the Drivers' Championship, Jim Clark ( Lotus ) was leading with 18 points, ahead of Richie Ginther ( BRM with 11 and Bruce McLaren ( Cooper ) and Dan Gurney ( Brabham ), both with 10.
Lotus was leading the Manufacturers' Championship with 19 points, ahead of BRM with 14 and Cooper and Brabham with 10.
Championship leader Jim Clark scored another pole position at the French Grand Prix , ahead of Graham Hill and Dan Gurney .
At the start, Hill stalled his engine, along with Masten Gregory and the unrelated Phil Hill , but they were allowed to be push-started without further consequence, which was a diversion from the normal rules by the French race director.
A couple of laps later, a series of retirements had changed the picture, and Clark's engine was not reaching full rpm either.
Jack Brabham was catching the leading Lotus , but when the rain fell, Clark was again the fastest man on track and took the chequered flag to complete another "grand slam" and a hattrick of wins.
When an electrical wire had come loose, Brabham's engine died.
Hill was still classified as third, but at a later point, it was decided to withhold his championship points.
Gurney took over when Brabham's engine blew up.
The race went on without incidents until Gurney's engine blew up on lap 60 and spread oil across the track.

1964 Season

It featured the 15th World Championship of Drivers , the 7th International Cup for F1 Manufacturers , and eight non-championship races open to Formula One cars.
The World Championship was contested over ten races between 10 May and 25 October 1964.
John Surtees won the Drivers' Championship with Scuderia Ferrari .
Maurice Trintignant retired at the age of 46 after 15 seasons in F1.
He was the last driver to have competed in the first World Championship season in 1950 .
Dutch driver Carel Godin de Beaufort crashed during practice for the German Grand Prix and succumbed to his injuries the following day in hospital .
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1964 FIA World Championship .
After a dominant 1963 season with seven wins in ten races, reigning champion Jim Clark was still in form for the first race of 1964, the Monaco Grand Prix .
He qualified his Lotus - Climax on pole position , but Jack Brabham (world champion in 1959 and 1960 ) was just 0.1 seconds behind him in his Brabham -Climax.
1962 champion Graham Hill started in third for BRM and John Surtees fourth for Ferrari .
Brabham would later retire, as would Surtees.
Just past half-distance, Hill took the lead and Gurney retired with a failing gearbox .
Surprisingly, Clark could not match Hill's pace, but it did not matter anyway, since his Lotus developed an oil leak and he retired with four laps to go.
Hill took the chequered flag, a lap ahead of his teammate Richie Ginther , awarding BRM a surprise 1-2 finish.
Debutant Peter Arundell was third for Lotus, with his team leader being classified fourth to rack up valuable points.
Dan Gurney started on pole position at the Dutch Grand Prix , with the champions Jim Clark and Graham Hill next to him on the front row.
Gurney retired on lap 22, before Hill's BRM developed a misfire .
Surtees briefly advanced to the front before his Ferrari engine failed, leading to a second retirement in three races.
Gurney broke the lap record multiple times, growing his lead to 40 seconds, but unknowingly, was running low on fuel.
His engine cut out with less than a kilometer to go, but the track went downhill, so the car was rolling towards the finish line at the bottom when Clark streaked by and narrowly took the victory.
Clark ran out of fuel during his cool-down lap, so he was brought back to the pits, seated on the engine cover of his teammate's car.
The French Grand Prix saw no surprising names on the front and second rows, although due to the many retirements so far, the fastest drivers did not necessarily feature at the top of the provisional standings.
Clark and Gurney quickly streaked ahead of the rest, while Surtees retired again.
Clark set a new lap record and edged away from Gurney, until his engine lost a cylinder .
He pitted, was sent out again, but then definitely retired.
Gurney took an unchallenged victory, while Hill and Brabham fought over second placed, rubbing tires and flicking up dirt all the while.
In the Drivers' Championship, Jim Clark ( Lotus ) stood on 21 points, ahead of Graham Hill ( BRM ) with 20 and both Richie Ginther (BRM) and Peter Arundell (Lotus) with 11 points.
The Manufacturers' Championship saw Lotus on top with 25 points, ahead of BRM (21) and Brabham (14).

1965 Season

It featured the 16th World Championship of Drivers , the 8th International Cup for F1 Manufacturers , and seven non-championship races open to Formula One cars.
The World Championship was contested over ten races between 1 January and 24 October 1965.
Jim Clark won the Drivers' Championship in a Lotus - Climax .
It was his second and last championship.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1965 FIA World Championship .
Three future champions made their debuts in 1965: For the first time, the championship started in South Africa , and it did on the very first day of the year.
The drivers started in order of their fastest qualifying times: 1963 champion Jim Clark in his Lotus - Climax was on pole position , ahead of 1964 champion John Surtees ( Ferrari ) and 1959 and 1960 champion Jack Brabham ( Brabham ).
Not many changes in positions happened after that, until Brabham's engine started misfiring , leaking oil, and sending Spence in a spin on the next lap.
The podium was taken by Clark, Surtees and 1962 champion Graham Hill ( BRM ).
On lap 30, Stewart spun coming out of the fastest corner, before Brabham's Climax engine seized.
Richard Attwood crashed in the hairpin, the leaders narrowly avoiding him, before Paul Hawkins crashed into the harbour.
Attwood crashed at Masta , his Lotus breaking in half and catching fire, but the driver escaping with only minor burns.
Jim Clark ( Lotus ) was leading the Drivers' Championship with 18 points, ahead of Graham Hill ( BRM , 15) and debutant Jackie Stewart (BRM, 11).
In the Manufacturers' Championship, BRM was leading with 19 points, ahead of Lotus (18) and Ferrari (12).
Championship leader Jim Clark qualified his Lotus on pole position , ahead of two "number two drivers": Jackie Stewart ( BRM ) and Lorenzo Bandini ( Ferrari ).
Except from Bandini's accident on lap 36, the race finished as it started: Clark claimed another Grand Slam victory, ahead of Stewart and Surtees.
At the start, Ginther challenged Clark for the lead, but fell back to fourth and then retired on lap 26.
The Climax engine was losing oil and Clark was coasting round the corners, only using power on the straights.

1966 Season

It featured the 17th World Championship of Drivers , the 9th International Cup for F1 Manufacturers , and four non-championship races open to Formula One cars.
The World Championship was contested over nine races between 22 May and 23 October 1966.
Jack Brabham won the Drivers' Championship in a Brabham - Repco .
It was his third and last championship.
Taylor was badly burned in the accident and succumbed to his injuries four weeks later.
The season saw "the return to power", with the FIA doubling the maximum allowed engine displacement from 1.5 to 3 litres .
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1966 FIA World Championship .
Dubbed "the return to power", the new formula of 3 litre naturally-aspirated engines was met with enthusiasm.
Coventry Climax had decided to quit their business of building racing engines, despite winning their latest championship in 1965 , so most British teams had to find new contracts: Two teams made their debut this year: The 1966 season started off with the Monaco Grand Prix .
The twisty track seemed for a large part to negate the difference in power between the 3 litre Ferrari engines and the 2 litre BRM and Climax engines (used by Lotuses ).
1963 and 1965 champion Jim Clark qualified on pole position in the Lotus-Climax, ahead of 1964 champion John Surtees for Ferrari.
On the second row started the two BRMs of Jackie Stewart and 1962 champion Graham Hill .
Under normal circumstances, the Ferrari would soon leave the BRM behind, but Surtees' rear axle failed and he retired on lap 16.
Clark dove through into the first corner to take third place - Rindt had retired with engine failure - but the Lotus's left-rear suspension failed later in the lap and the reigning champion was out of the race.
Behind came three Coopers but none of them were classified and did not receive championship points.
Stewart and Hill crashed in the Masta Kink , already known as the most dangerous corner, and the Scot got trapped under his car in a pool of leaking fuel for 25 minutes.
Hill and Bondurant, who had both crashed as well, borrowed a spectator's toolkit to free him.
Another five cars retired within the first lap of the race, including Clark.
Behind them finished 1959 and 1960 champion Jack Brabham and Rindt's teammate Richie Ginther .
Two other drivers were still running but were not classified, making it two races in a row that championship points were held back under the new rule.
Following his crash, Stewart became a strong advocate of improving driver safety in not only Grand Prix but motor racing in general.
At the start, Surtees fell back with fuel pick-up issues, before he retired on lap 5.

1967 Season

It featured the 18th World Championship of Drivers , the 10th International Cup for F1 Manufacturers , and six non-championship races open to Formula One cars.
The World Championship was contested over eleven races between 2 January and 22 October 1967.
Denny Hulme won the Drivers' Championship in a Brabham - Repco .
As of 2024 , this is the only championship won by a New Zealand driver .
Hulme also became the first driver in World Championship history to win the title without having scored a pole position during the season.
Lorenzo Bandini crashed during the Monaco Grand Prix .
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1967 FIA World Championship .
After Lorenzo Bandini 's fatal accident, the FIA banned circuit organisers from using straw bales along the track and TV crews from flying their helicopters too low, as both had contributed to the fire flaring up.
Coming down from his third World Championship in 1966 , Jack Brabham started this year off as well, with a pole position at the South African Grand Prix .
Teammate Denny Hulme started second and two-time World Champion Jim Clark lined up in third in his Lotus .
From 1967 to 1969 , there was four months between the first and second race of the championship, and most teams would usually run the first race with old designs, or not even participate.
When Lotus could finally run the new Cosworth engines in the Dutch Grand Prix , their pace was significantly better than before and Hill snatched pole position.
A surprising Dan Gurney in the Eagle started second, reigning champion Brabham in third.
Hill's engine suddenly seized on lap 11, but teammate Clark was charging, getting up to second on lap 15 and taking the lead from Brabham on the next lap.
During the first lap, Mike Parkes crashed his Ferrari and was thrown out.
Then, Clark had to pit to change a spark plug and Stewart ran into trouble with his gearbox, and Gurney took the lead.
After setting a new lap record, the American driver won, over a minute ahead of Stewart and Amon.
Four different winners led to a close fight at the top of the Drivers' Championship.

1968 Season

It featured the 19th World Championship of Drivers , the 11th International Cup for F1 Manufacturers , and three non-championship races open to Formula One cars.
The World Championship was contested over twelve races between 1 January and 3 November 1968.
Great Britain driver Graham Hill , driving a Lotus - Ford Cosworth , won his second Drivers' Championship, six years after his first.
Hill's main rivals were Jackie Stewart at Tyrrell Matra and 1967 champion Denny Hulme at McLaren .
The 1968 season turned out to be a turning point in terms of safety, with four Grand Prix drivers being involved in fatal crashes: two-time World Champion Jim Clark , Mike Spence , Jo Schlesser and Ludovico Scarfiotti .
Lotus replied with a full width wing directly connected to the rear suspension that required a re-design of the wishbones and transmission shafts .
Matra then produced a high mounted front wing connected to the front suspension.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1968 FIA World Championship .
On the seventh lap, Brabham overtook Rindt for third place but soon afterwards he ran into engine trouble and dropped back, leaving Rindt third again.
Amon moved into fifth place having overtaken Surtees on the same lap.
Stewart stayed with him until Lap 43 of 80 when the Matra retired with a connecting rod failure.
This moved Rindt to third once again and the order then remained unchanged all the way to the finish with Lotus scoring a dominant 1–2 finish with Rindt third.
Clark won his 25th and last championship Grand Prix from teammate Graham Hill and Austrian Jochen Rindt in a Brabham.
Clark broke Juan Manuel Fangio's 10 1/2 year record of 24 Grand Prix victories, and would go on to hold this record until his countryman and friend Jackie Stewart broke the record in 1973.
Many F1 drivers in the 1960s went to compete in the Tasman series in New Zealand and Australia during the European winter and the Southern Hemisphere summer, which was a nine-week, eight-race series that started in early January and ended in late February/early March, with respective races every week in open wheel racing cars that were very similar to F1 cars of the time, with exactly the same chassis- only these variants had 2.5 litre engines, as opposed to Formula One world championship cars, which had 3 litre engines.

1969 Season

It featured the 20th World Championship of Drivers , the 12th International Cup for F1 Manufacturers and four non-championship races open to Formula One cars.
The World Championship was contested over eleven races between 1 March and 19 October 1969.
British driver Jackie Stewart , driving a Matra - Ford Cosworth , won more than half of the races and claimed his first Drivers' Championship.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1969 World Championship .
At the beginning of the season, the wings were positioned as high as possible to generate the most downforce and secured on the car's suspension to push the tyres into the ground.
But when the 1969 Spanish Grand Prix featured several dramatic crashes, the FIA (then known as the Commission Sportive Internationale or CSI ) banned all use of wings.
From the next race on, wings would be allowed again, but only if there no movable parts, if they were rigidly attached to sprung parts of the bodywork (so not to the suspension ) and fell within a certain maximum height and width .
During practice for the South African Grand Prix , reigning champion Graham Hill broke the pedal operating the wings, while the wings themselves broke on the cars of his Lotus teammates Jochen Rindt and Mario Andretti .
The American driver had noticed that, when going through a fast corner, the wing leant sideways so far that it touched the rear tyre and twisted the struts .
Three-time World Champion Jack Brabham qualified on pole position in the car bearing his name , ahead of Rindt and 1967 champion Denny Hulme .
At the start, Stewart got up to second behind Brabham, overtook the Australian before the end of the first lap, and then broke the lap record while still heavy on fuel.
This allowed him to reach 283.78 km/h (176.33 mph) on the straight but made the car very unstable in the corners, and he decided to retire.
Andretti inherited second place, but then retired with a gearbox failure, and Rindt suffered from a failing fuel pump .
During practice, Rindt hit a stray dog and damaged his suspension but still managed to qualify on pole, ahead of Amon and Hill.
Only twelve drivers managed to start the race and Hill crashed out after just six laps, but Rindt led away without trouble.
On lap 20, however, his rear wing collapsed while travelling 225 km/h (140 mph) and he crashed into the Armco barrier .
Amon inherited the lead with almost 40 seconds over Stewart, until his engine blew on lap 56.
While Jacky Ickx was in second place, his wing collapsed, necessating a pit stop, and later, his Brabham's rear wishbone broke, making retirement unavoidable.

1970 Season

It featured the 21st World Championship of Drivers , the 13th International Cup for F1 Manufacturers and three non-championship races open to Formula One cars.
The World Championship was contested over thirteen races between 7 March and 25 October.
Jochen Rindt , driving for Lotus , won his first Drivers' Championship, although he died four races before the end of the season.
He had earned enough championship points that no other driver managed to surpass his total.
It is the only season to date in which the Drivers' Championship has been awarded posthumously.
Three-time World Champion Jack Brabham retired at the end of the year.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1970 World Championship .
This system was introduced shortly before the second race of the season , leading to protests among teams and drivers.
The FIA published some considerations on circuit design and announced that all circuits would have to pass their inspections: As it had been since 1967 , the championship commenced in South Africa .
Reigning champion Jackie Stewart , driving a privatised March 701 for Tyrrell Racing , set the fastest lap, before Chris Amon , driving the same car but for the March works team , set the exact same time, a 1:19.3.
Three-time World Champion Jack Brabham joined them on the first row.
But he hit the front of Amon's car and then crashed into Brabham.
Brabham took the lead on lap 20, Hulme went past Stewart on lap 38 into second, and it was only thanks to Bruce McLaren's engine failure that the Scot finished on the podium.
Under pressure of the protesting teams, they reverted their decision on the morning of the race and all 22 entered cars were rolled onto the grid, until the CSI forced them to uphold it and saw to it that the six slowest qualifiers, based on the Saturday qualifying times alone, were removed.
Another nine drivers retired during the race with mechanical issues, which meant only five were left at the finish.

1971 Season

It featured the 22nd World Championship of Drivers , the 14th International Cup for F1 Manufacturers and a number of non-championship races open to Formula One cars.
The World Championship was contested over eleven races between 6 March and 3 October.
Jackie Stewart , driving for Tyrrell Racing , won his second Drivers' Championship.
Their car was powered by the famous Cosworth DFV V8 , while rivals BRM and Ferrari made use of self-designed V12 engines .
1970 champions Team Lotus had a desultory season after the death of their driver and champion Jochen Rindt , experimenting with a gas turbine engine and four-wheel drive , but ending up just fifth in the standings.
Two Formula One drivers lost their lives this year while racing: Pedro Rodríguez crashed his Ferrari 512 in July, at an Interserie race at the Norisring , and Jo Siffert died in October, in a fiery crash during the Victory Race at Brands Hatch .
This was the first season where at least 22 cars started every championship race, except the Monaco Grand Prix , where 18 cars started.
The following teams and drivers competed in the championship.
While Lotus and Tyrrell had kept their line-up from 1970 , quite a lot of changes happened further down the field: The maximum race distance for World Championship Grand Prix races was reduced from 400 km (250 mi) to 325 km (202 mi).
Austrian Jochen Rindt had won the championship posthumously in 1970 for Lotus-Ford; he was killed at Monza during practice for the Italian Grand Prix in September of that year.
Although three races remained after Monza, Rindt's points lead after four consecutive Grand Prix victories earlier in the season was enough to secure him the championship.
Briton Jackie Stewart, world champion in 1969, had a transitional year in 1970, using a customer March car after Matra refused to allow Stewart's boss Ken Tyrrell to put a Ford-Cosworth DFV V8 in their car in place of Matra's own V12.
The new Tyrrell 001 car was first raced by the Scottish Stewart at the Mont-Tremblant circuit in Quebec, Canada- and was immediately competitive, but he retired due to mechanical failure.
Over the winter months Ferrari technical director Mauro Forghieri and his engineers at Ferrari developed the car into 312B/2 form.
Jean-Pierre Beltoise was pushing his Matra sportscar back to the pits when he was hit by Giunti's Ferrari 312P; the Italian was killed in the ensuing crash.
Tyrrell retained Jackie Stewart and Francois Cevert, while Team Lotus also developed its 1970 car for Brazilian Emerson Fittipaldi and Swede Reine Wisell (although design work was progressing on the Lotus 56, a gas turbine car powered by Pratt & Whitney engines).
McLaren continued with Denny Hulme and Peter Gethin but the Alfa Romeo engines used by Andrea de Adamich moved to March where the Italian became Ronnie Peterson's teammate in the curious March 711 factory cars.

1972 Season

It featured the 23rd World Championship of Drivers , the 15th International Cup for F1 Manufacturers , and numerous non-championship Formula One races.
The World Championship commenced on 23 January and ended on 8 October after twelve races.
Emerson Fittipaldi , driving for Lotus , became the youngest World Champion to date at 25 years.
This record would stand until Fernando Alonso 's title in 2005 .
Reigning champion Jackie Stewart came second in the championship.
The Lotus team had finished fifth in the standings of 1971 , but kept developing their innovative Lotus 72 "wedge" design to take a surprise championship victory.
The following teams and drivers contested the 1972 World Championship.
When Formula One returned to Argentina for the first time since 1960 , it was local driver Carlos Reutemann who made his debut and immediately scored pole position for Brabham .
Reigning champion Jackie Stewart started second in his Tyrrell and Peter Revson lined up in third for his first race with McLaren .
Reutemann started struggling on his super-soft Goodyear tyres and, by lap 11, he was down to fourth place.
Fittipaldi had retired with suspension damage.
However, on lap 28, his rear suspension collapsed and he had to retire.
Stewart then looked set to win, until he suffered a gearbox failure on lap 45 and Fittipaldi inherited the lead.
Finally, the New Zealander took the chequered flag, ahead of Fittipaldi and Peter Revson.
Wilson had replaced Carlos Reutemann after the Swiss driver injured his ankle in a Formula 2 race a week earlier.
On the Jarama circuit , the Belgian Jacky Ickx took a dominant pole position, seven tenths ahead of Denny Hulme and Emerson Fittipaldi.
The Brazilian held on to take the victory, while Stewart spun off the track and retired.
Since Ickx had set a new lap record and actually lapped his teammate in third place, Fittipaldi's win showed that the Lotus 72 was now truly ahead in the development race.

1973 Season

It featured the 1973 World Championship of Drivers and the 1973 International Cup for F1 Manufacturers , which were contested concurrently over a fifteen-race series that commenced on 28 January and ended on 7 October.
The season also included two non-championship races which were open to both Formula One and Formula 5000 cars.
The World Championship of Drivers was won by Jackie Stewart , driving for Elf Team Tyrrell , for the third time.
At the final race of the season, Stewart's teammate Francois Cevert crashed during Saturday practice and was killed instantly.
Subsequently, Stewart made public his decision to retire, but he had decided on this already earlier.
British driver Roger Williamson was also killed during the season, in a tragic crash at the Dutch Grand Prix where marshals arrived too late on the scene and fellow driver David Purley was unable to free Williamson from the burning wreck.
The following teams and drivers contested the 1973 World Championship.
There were relatively few changes in the top teams, but no less than usual further down the order: The calendar was expanded from 12 to 15 races: Other changes: Like last year, the championship commenced in January in Argentina .
He was attracted by the Marlboro -sponsored British Racing Motors team for "an astronomical fee" and delivered early success: he qualified on pole position , ahead of reigning champion Emerson Fittipaldi in the Lotus and last year's teammate Jacky Ickx .
For the first quarter of the race, five drivers formed a tight leading pack: Regazzoni, Cevert, Fittipaldi, new Lotus driver Ronnie Peterson and 1971 champion Jackie Stewart .
But then, with his Firestone tyres overheating, Regazzoni fell back to fifth, while Stewart's conservative start allowed him to get up to second place.
Going into the tail end of the race, Fittipaldi overtook Stewart, much to the joy of the South American fans, and set a new lap record in his chase for Cevert.
After an inspired promotional campaign, São Paulo were selected to host the first ever World Championship Brazilian Grand Prix .
Peterson fell back to fourth and then, on lap 6, had a crash due to high right rear wheel collapsing.
Pace then retired with suspension damage.
In practice, Jackie Stewart was going faster and faster until he suffered a dramatic brake failure and spun backwards through three layers of chain link fence .
The start of the race was rather calm, but on lap 3, Clay Regazzoni crashed into a stationary Mike Hailwood .
Scheckter retired with just four laps to go.
At least three drivers reported Stewart for overtaking under yellow flags and McLaren's team boss filed the official protest.

1974 Season

It featured the 1974 World Championship of F1 Drivers and the 1974 International Cup for F1 Manufacturers , contested concurrently over a fifteen-race series which commenced on 13 January and ended on 6 October.
The season also included three non-championship races.
Defending champion Jackie Stewart did not drive in 1974, having announced his retirement at the end of the previous season .
Emerson Fittipaldi ( McLaren ) and Clay Regazzoni ( Ferrari ) went into the last race of the championship with equal number of points, but Regazzoni dropped down the field with handling problems and Fittipaldi's fourth place gave him his second championship.
The following teams and drivers contested the 1974 World Championship.
A relatively large number of driver changes had happened over the winter: During the season, five teams debuted with their self-made chassis: These are some of the mid-season driver changes: Selfseal breakaway fuel couplings were mandated to reduce the chance of a fire in accidents.
Fittipaldi was hit by teammate Mike Hailwood and lost two laps while repairing his car, and James Hunt inherited second whereas Peter Revson , who started fourth, retired in the chaos.
Reutemann continued to lead until his engine began to misfire, with Hulme closing in and taking the lead on the penultimate lap.

1975 Season

It featured the 1975 World Championship of F1 Drivers and the 1975 International Cup for F1 Manufacturers which were contested concurrently from 12 January to 5 October over fourteen races.
The season also included three non-championship Formula One races and a nine race South African Formula One Championship .
An emotional first win for Carlos Pace in his native São Paulo looked to confirm this, but tyre wear frequently hampered the cars and the initial promise was not maintained.
He won his first drivers' title with five wins and a huge margin over second place in the championship.
Ferrari took home the championship trophy for manufacturers.
American Mark Donohue died in August, two days after crashing in practice for the Austrian Grand Prix .
And after the season, in late November, an Embassy Hill airplane crashed in England and all six aboard were killed, including team owner Graham Hill and driver Tony Brise .
The following drivers and constructors and contested the 1975 World Championship of F1 Drivers and the 1975 International Cup for F1 Manufacturers.
By then, reigning world champion Emerson Fittipaldi in his McLaren was past Lauda and up to third, and soon took Reutemann for second as well.
Pace recovered to fourth after his spin, but it was to no avail as his engine blew up.
Jarier's engine stopped with seven laps left and Pace took the lead.
Pace kept second until he struggled with tyres and was passed by Reutemann and the second Tyrrell of Patrick Depailler .
Mechanics from the teams went around the entire circuit to attempt to repair/fasten down the barriers.
Reigning world champion and championship leader Emerson Fittipaldi had no intention to race because of the condition of the barriers, and went home on Sunday morning.
Hunt led until he crashed after spinning on oil on the track, leaving Andretti leading from John Watson in the Surtees and Rolf Stommelen 's Hill .
Watson then had to pit with a vibration and the leader Andretti retired after a suspension failure sent him into the guardrail.
This promoted Pace to second and Peterson to third, but the Swede retired after colliding with backmarker François Migault while lapping him.

1976 Season

It featured the 1976 World Championship of Drivers and the 1976 International Cup for Formula 1 Manufacturers .
Two non-championship races were also held during the 1976 season.
In an extraordinarily political and dramatic season, the Drivers' Championship went to McLaren driver James Hunt by one point from Ferrari 's defending champion Niki Lauda , although Ferrari took the Manufacturers' trophy.
The controversy began in Spain where Hunt was initially disqualified from first place, handing the race win to Lauda, only for the decision to be overturned on appeal months later.
Ferrari did not enter the Austrian Grand Prix out of protest.
He was eventually disqualified after an appeal from Ferrari.
Lauda had a massive crash at the Nürburgring in West Germany and appeared likely to die from his injuries, but managed to return after missing just two races.
In the appalling weather conditions, Lauda withdrew from the race and Hunt finished third to take the championship trophy.
This was the last championship for a British driver until Nigel Mansell in 1992 .
Other noteworthy events include the introduction of the six-wheeled Tyrrell P34 , the last race by Chris Amon , regarded as one of the best F1 drivers never to win a championship, and the British Grand Prix , for being the only championship race ever in which more than one female driver were entered (although both failed to qualify).
The following teams and drivers contested the 1976 World Championship of Drivers and the 1976 International Cup for Formula 1 Manufacturers.
This caught out the McLaren team and James Hunt was disqualified, only for the decision to be overturned by the team's appeal.
For the opening round of the season in Brazil at the 5-mile Interlagos circuit in São Paulo, James Hunt took pole position in his McLaren with reigning World Champion Niki Lauda alongside in his Ferrari (which set the tone for the season).
Lauda now led from Hunt and Jarier, but Hunt crashed out due to a sticking throttle, and Jarier did the same a lap later after driving on some oil in the track.
Depailler kept third until a spin which dropped him well down the order, but he charged back up to fifth, and was back in third after Pryce's Shadow, and Jody Scheckter in the second Tyrrell retired after driveshaft and suspension failures respectively.
Regazzoni went on to take a dominant victory, with Lauda completing the Ferrari 1–2, and Depailler third.
Depailler, after a slow start, was running fourth behind Mass when he spun off and crashed with brake problems.
Just before mid-race, the McLarens of Hunt and Mass found another gear and drove past Lauda, but towards the end of the race, Mass had to retire with an engine failure.
Hunt took his first win of the season, with Lauda second and Gunnar Nilsson 's Lotus third.

1977 Season

It featured the 28th World Championship of Drivers and the 20th International Cup for Formula 1 Constructors .
The season also included a single non-championship race for Formula One cars, the 1977 Race of Champions .
Niki Lauda won his second championship, despite Mario Andretti winning more races.
The season was marred by a horrific accident during the South African GP : Tom Pryce was unable to avoid hitting 19-year-old race marshal Frederik Jansen van Vuuren, who had tried to cross the track.
The latter was killed in the collision, while his fire extinguisher struck and killed Pryce.
There was further tragedy as Carlos Pace lost his life in an aviation accident, only a couple of weeks later.
The following drivers and constructors contested the World Championship of Drivers and the International Cup for Formula 1 Constructors: The 1977 season started in Argentina, returning after a year's absence.
It was reigning world champion James Hunt who started off his title defence with pole position in his McLaren .
Mass had to retire soon after with an engine failure which caused him to spin, and a suspension failure took teammate and race leader Hunt out three laps later.
Watson took the lead again, but he also had suspension failures and let teammate Carlos Pace through.
Watson eventually retired, and Pace struggled towards the end due to heat in his cockpit and was passed by Jody Scheckter 's Wolf and Andretti, but the latter retired then with a wheel bearing failure.
Scheckter took the first win of 1977, with Pace second, and home hero Carlos Reutemann completing the podium for Ferrari .
Hunt led Reutemann until he began to suffer from tyre troubles and was passed by Reutemann.
Hunt pitted for new tyres, and rejoined fourth and soon passed Niki Lauda in the Ferrari and Watson to reclaim second.
Reutemann marched on to victory, Hunt was second and Lauda third after Watson crashed out.
The second marshal, Fredrik Jansen van Vuuren, carrying a fire extinguisher was hit by the car of Tom Pryce at about 270 km/h (170 mph) and was killed instantly by the collision.
The race continued however, and Lauda won, his first since his own horror crash last year, with home hero Scheckter second, and Depailler's six-wheeler took third from Hunt in the closing laps.

1978 Season

It featured the 1978 World Championship of F1 Drivers and the International Cup for F1 Constructors , contested concurrently over a sixteen race series which commenced on 15 January and ended on 8 October.
The season also included the non-championship BRDC International Trophy .
Mario Andretti won the Drivers' World Championship, driving for JPS - Lotus .
He remains the last American driver to win the World Championship.
Ronnie Peterson was awarded second place in the Drivers' standings posthumously, having died from medical complications after an accident at Monza during the Italian Grand Prix .
Championship defendants Niki Lauda and Ferrari had parted ways late in 1977 , and both parties struggled to repeat the successes they had enjoyed the previous seasons.
Carlos Reutemann finished third in the championship in the lead Ferrari, while Lauda finished fourth with Brabham .
The following drivers and constructors contested the 1978 World Championship of F1 Drivers and the International Cup for F1 Constructors.
The 1978 World Championship of F1 Drivers and the International Cup for F1 Constructors were contested concurrently over a sixteen-race series.
Reutemann ran third for a while but then began to drop down the order due to tire problems, so reigning world champion Niki Lauda took third in his Brabham, which became second with ten laps left when Watson's engine blew up.
This had been an unusual Argentine Grand Prix- although the summer weather had been usually hot (although not as hot as the previous year), the attrition rate hadn't been as high, nor had the polesitter retired.
Hunt ran second until he had to pit for tyres, as a result, Andretti took the place until late in the race when he suffered gearbox issues, which handed second to Fittipaldi and third to Lauda.
Reutemann was never headed at the front and went to win comfortably, with double world champion Emerson Fittipaldi in his brother's team finishing second, and Lauda third, with both overhauling an ailing Andretti towards the end, who eventually finished 4th ahead of Regazzoni and Pironi who rounded out the top 6.
After a long break, the season resumed at the Kyalami circuit in South Africa for the 300th World Championship Grand Prix, where defending champion Lauda took his first pole for Brabham with Andretti alongside and Hunt next.
As the race continued, both Andretti and Scheckter began to suffer from tyre issues and were passed by Patrese.
Depailler was up to second ahead of Lauda, but the latter's engine failed, handing third to Andretti.
Patrese, however, seemed to have the race in his pocket until his engine failed, and Depailler took the lead, but his Tyrrell began to trail smoke.
The Ferraris dominated qualifying, with Reutemann taking pole ahead of teammate Gilles Villeneuve , with defending champion Lauda and home hero Andretti on the second row.
The Ferraris, with the two Brabhams in between, ran together until Watson's engine failed.
Alan Jones 's Williams was up to fourth and closed in on the now lead trio, which became a duo when Lauda went out with an electrical failure.
Villeneuve and Reutemann ran 1–2, with Jones putting both under pressure before Villeneuve also retired after colliding with a backmarker.
The rest of the race passed without incident, and with all challengers out of contention, Reutemann won comfortably ahead of Andretti and Depailler.
For the first half of the race, the top three remained the same until Watson had an off allowing Depailler and Lauda through, but the latter then suffered a puncture and had to pit for tyres before charging back up and retaking second from Watson towards the end of the race.

1979 Season

It featured the 1979 World Championship of F1 Drivers and the 1979 International Cup for F1 Constructors which were contested concurrently over a fifteen-round series which commenced on 21 January 1979, and ended on 7 October 1979.
The season also included three non-championship Formula One races.
Jody Scheckter won the Drivers' Championship and, with teammate Gilles Villeneuve in second place, Ferrari won the Constructors' Championship.
This was the team's fourth Constructors' Championship in five years , and more would follow, but it would be their last Drivers' Championship for the next 21 years .
This was the final season for 1976 F1 world champion James Hunt .
The following drivers and constructors contested the 1979 World Championship of F1 Drivers and the 1979 International Cup for F1 Constructors .
Jody Scheckter had joined Gilles Villeneuve at Ferrari and the team produced the ungainly 312T4 , which was handicapped aerodynamically by the flat-12 engine , which made ground-effect difficult.
The engine was however very powerful.
The team gave up with the old Matra engine and ran Cosworths instead and Gerard Ducarouge designed the JS11 .
Brabham had a new Alfa Romeo V12 engine and Niki Lauda was joined by rising star Nelson Piquet in the Parmalat -sponsored team.
Most people expected the Lotus cars driven by defending champion Mario Andretti , and his new teammate Carlos Reutemann to dominate but, to many people's surprise, it was the Ligier team that dominated qualifying, with Jacques Laffite on pole ahead of Patrick Depailler , leaving home favorite Reutemann to qualify third, with Jarier fourth ahead of Scheckter , Watson , Andretti, Pironi , Tambay and Villeneuve .
The resulting accident involved Pironi, Tambay, Piquet , Merzario and Andretti; Piquet was taken to hospital) and the race was red-flagged , and aside from Piquet's injury, no one else was injured.
The Ligiers drove away, whereas Jarier struggled and dropped down the order with engine troubles, leaving Watson third before he was passed by a recovering Reutemann.

1980 Season

It featured the 1980 World Championship of Drivers and the 1980 International Cup for F1 Constructors , which were contested concurrently from 13 January to 5 October over a fourteen-race series.
The season also included one non-championship race, the Spanish Grand Prix .
Alan Jones , driving a Williams - Ford , became the first Australian to win the World Championship since Jack Brabham in 1966 .
The season saw a major change of guard in Formula One with the Williams team's first Drivers' and Constructors' titles, the emergence of Nelson Piquet as a championship contender and the debut of future World Champions Alain Prost and Nigel Mansell , while reigning champions Jody Scheckter and Ferrari suffered a terrible season that resulted in Scheckter retiring from the sport at the end of the year.
The following drivers and constructors contested the 1980 World Championship of Drivers and the 1980 International Cup for F1 Constructors.
Originally, 1980 was to be an eighteen-race championship, but three Grands Prix were cancelled before the season began: The 1980 Formula One season started in Argentina in January.
Led by Emerson Fittipaldi, the drivers staged a semi-unsuccessful protest – the organizers did actually fix the track, but not successfully – come race day, the track was still in a dreadful condition.
French rookie Alain Prost, in his first ever F1 race, finished 6th and scored his first ever World Championship point.
Gilles Villeneuve, competitive throughout in his Ferrari, crashed heavily at the Toboggan left-right sequence of corners after his front suspension failed after possible damage caused to it after a number of off-track excursions the Canadian had during the race.
The safety conditions of the very difficult, demanding and confined 5-mile Interlagos circuit located in the steel-making metropolis of São Paulo had been heavily protested by the drivers for some time, led by South African Ferrari driver Jody Scheckter.
The drivers protested that the Interlagos track's surface (already notorious for being very rough) was so bad that it was actually dangerous to race on.
The Renaults proved to be dominant at Interlagos, which was 2,840 ft (850 m) above sea level, giving the turbocharged Renault engines a considerable horsepower advantage.
But he retired with turbo failure and his teammate Rene Arnoux took the lead and won, followed by Italian new-boy Elio de Angelis in a Lotus and Jones in his Williams.
Alain Prost crashed his McLaren at the Esses and broke his wrist; he would miss this and the next race in Long Beach; while Marc Surer had it worse – he crashed heavily at Crowthorne and broke his leg; he missed the next 3 races.
And as in São Paulo, Jabouille led for a while and retired, and Arnoux took the lead from 2nd place and won the race.
But the race itself was littered with accidents – there was a pile-up at the Le Gasomet hairpin caused by Alfa Romeo driver Bruno Giacomelli and the 40-year-old Swiss Clay Regazzoni crashed appallingly at the end of the long, flat-out Shoreline Drive when the brakes on his Ensign failed and he crashed head on at 180 mph into Ricardo Zunino's parked Brabham, then through some tires and into a concrete wall.
The Swiss was critically injured, but survived; he would be paralyzed from the waist down for the rest of his life.
Didier Pironi led and crashed, and Carlos Reutemann took the lead and won from Frenchman Jacques Laffite in a Ligier-Ford/Cosworth and Piquet in a Brabham.

1981 Season

The 1981 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 35th season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 1981 Formula One World Championship for Drivers and the 1981 Formula One World Championship for Manufacturers , which were contested over a fifteen-race series that commenced on 15 March and ended on 17 October.
The 1981 South African Grand Prix , as a non-championship race due to difficulties from the ongoing FISA–FOCA war , was open to Formula One entrants but was not part of the World Championship.
The 1981 championship was the first to be run under the FIA Formula One World Championship name, replacing both the original World Championship of Drivers and International Cup for Constructors .
The agreement required teams to lodge entries for the entire championship rather than individual races, while the FIA would also set the prize money.
Nelson Piquet won the Drivers' Championship, claiming the first of his three drivers' titles, while Williams won the Constructors' Championship for the second consecutive year.
Avon and Pirelli entered the sport as tyre manufacturers.
The following teams and drivers contested the 1981 FIA Formula One World Championship: There had been a lot of change over the winter: The championship was contested over the following fifteen races: The following races were included on the original calendar but were cancelled: The South African Grand Prix, held on 7 February at the Kyalami Circuit near Johannesburg, was originally supposed to be the first round of the 1981 Formula One World Championship – but it was eventually stripped of its championship status.
Approval was ultimately given for the race to go ahead on its original date but as a Formula Libre race rather than as a round of the Formula One World Championship.

1983 Season

The 1983 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 37th season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 1983 Formula One World Championship for Drivers and the 1983 Formula One World Championship for Manufacturers , which were contested concurrently over a fifteen-race series that commenced on 13 March and ended on 15 October.
Nelson Piquet , driving for Brabham , won the Drivers' Championship, for the second time.
Renault driver Alain Prost led the championship from the Belgian Grand Prix in May until the final race in South Africa , where he retired and enabled the Brazilian to snatch the title.
It was the first title by a driver using a turbocharged engine and the last title by a Brabham driver.
Ferrari won the Constructors' Championship, despite its better driver, René Arnoux , finishing only third overall – a unique feat in Formula One history.
The season also included a non-championship Formula One race for the last time: the Race of Champions , held at Brands Hatch and won by defending World Champion Keke Rosberg .
Avon exited as a tyre supplier after two seasons.
The following drivers and constructors contested the 1983 FIA Formula One World Championship.
The last ever non-championship Formula One race was held in 1983 with the Race of Champions held at Brands Hatch on 10 April between the United States Grand Prix West (Round 2) at Long Beach and the French Grand Prix (Round 3) at Paul Ricard .
Defending World Champion Keke Rosberg took pole position (the last non-turbo pole position and front row start until 1989 , the last Cosworth V8 pole position until 1993 , and last Cosworth V8 front row start until 1990 ).
Rosberg's car then caught fire during his pitstop for fuel and tyres (the first one Williams had ever done).
With the fire extinguished, he fought back from ninth to finish second behind Piquet (who never lost the lead once he got it), but was subsequently disqualified for receiving a push start in the pits.
Still racing an updated version of their 1981 / 1982 car until the new car would appear in Long Beach for Alain Prost , who started on the front row in Rio but couldn't sustain pace and finished a lap down in 7th while new team mate Eddie Cheever started in 8th place in his first Factory drive but retired from the race on lap 42 with brake failure.
On that lap, Rosberg attempted to overtake, but the two cars touched and span.
Tambay retired, but Rosberg continued in the lead.
Soon afterwards, Laffite took the lead, pushing Rosberg into a collision as he did so.
The McLaren pair of John Watson and Niki Lauda had started from 22nd and 23rd on the grid, but both Laffite and Patrese were struggling with worn tyres, and were being caught quickly by the McLarens.
Patrese suffered an engine failure three laps from the end, leaving third position to Arnoux, with Laffite following home, a lap down in fourth.
Chico Serra had been replaced in the second Arrows by 1980 World Champion Alan Jones , but the Australian's return to F1 was unsuccessful, and Serra would be back in the car for the next race.

1984 Season

The 1984 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 38th season of Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 1984 Formula One World Championship for Drivers and the 1984 Formula One World Championship for Manufacturers , both of which commenced on 25 March and ended on 21 October after sixteen races.
In the Drivers' Championship, McLaren teammates Alain Prost and Niki Lauda enjoyed a season-long duel.
Prost won seven races to equal Jim Clark 's record from 1963 , over Lauda's five, but the Austrian eventually prevailed by half a point – the smallest margin in Formula One history.
Reigning champion Nelson Piquet finished fifth in the championship.
Brabham , Renault and Ferrari were the expected frontrunners, but it was McLaren who clinched the Constructors' Championship with a then-record margin.
The combination of their talented drivers, the aerodynamics of the John Barnard -designed MP4/2 and the experience of engine supplier Porsche with fuel economy made them almost unbeatable, winning twelve of the sixteen Grands Prix.
As of 2024 , this is the last championship for an Austrian Formula One driver .
It is also the last time that the Drivers' Champion did not score a pole position during the season.
This is also the last Formula One season to feature 3 tyre suppliers.
There was a clear trend of manufacturers switching from naturally aspirated engines to turbocharged engines , attracted by their power output : The teams were careful in their approach, running the old and new cars simultaneously, before finally stepping over to turbo.
In addition to a frantic start, drivers had to deal with people running across the track with the cars bearing down on those people; Briton Derek Warwick in the French factory Renault led until an incident with Niki Lauda led to suspension failure; Frenchman Alain Prost won his first Grand Prix with McLaren at the flat and rough but fast Rio circuit.
Senna would prove to be the first retirement of the season when the turbo on his 4 cyl Hart engine failed on lap 8.

1985 Season

The 1985 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 39th season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 1985 Formula One World Championship for Drivers and the 1985 Formula One World Championship for Manufacturers, both of which commenced on 7 April and ended on 3 November after sixteen races.
The Drivers' Championship was won by Alain Prost .
After finishing two years as runner-up, both times winning more races than the champion, he was able to clinch the title this year sealing his success at the European Grand Prix .
It would be first of four championships for "the Professor".
The Constructors' Championship was won by McLaren for the second consecutive year.
Reigning champion Niki Lauda retired after this season, although team boss Ron Dennis tried to convince him otherwise.
After eight years, Michelin had withdrawn from the sport, leaving Pirelli and Goodyear as tyre suppliers for 1985.
Originally, the 1985 calendar had a record number of 19 Grands Prix (2 more than the previous record in 1977 ).
All chassis would now have to pass a frontal crash test before the manufacturer was eligible to enter it for a Grand Prix.
Renault did enter three cars for the German Grand Prix , so only two of their cars were eligible for championship points.
Rosberg retired with turbo failure, and McLaren-TAG/Porsche driver Alain Prost took 2nd after taking advantage of an accident involving Briton Nigel Mansell at the start.
He led the race from start to finish, and lapped everyone except 2nd-placed Alboreto on the way to his debut victory.

1986 Season

The 1986 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 40th season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 1986 Formula One World Championship for Drivers and the 1986 Formula One World Championship for Manufacturers, both of which commenced on 23 March and ended on 26 October after sixteen races.
The Drivers' Championship was won by Alain Prost , Prost was the first driver to win back-to-back Drivers' Championships since Jack Brabham in 1959 and 1960.
After 1986, Renault left the sport as an engine supplier due to company restructuring , only to return in 1989 .
The Constructors' Championship was won by Williams - Honda .
Honda became the first Japanese engine supplier to win a Constructors' Championship.
The following competitors contested the 1986 Formula One World Championship.
These rounds were eventually removed: Back in 1980 , Renault proved that turbocharged engines were the way to success and by the half-way point in the 1985 season, all teams had followed their example.
The FIA saw that the power output from turbo engines had doubled in the past six years.
This power output was only seen in qualifying trim, since the specially-prepared engines, tyres and gearboxes could only hold on for two to four laps under this immense force before destroying themselves, and in race trim, with the engines limited in power to conserve them to run a 190-mile (306 km) race distance, the cars were not much slower.
So after mandating turbocharged engines for 1986, the governing body decided to re-allow naturally aspirated engines for 1987 , and at the same time started reining in the power of turbo engines, before banning them altogether for the 1989 season.
Piquet then went past Senna on Lap 3 and took the lead, beginning to pull away at a second a lap; Senna remained ahead of Arnoux, although the Frenchman was soon overtaken by Alboreto.
Rosberg was fifth but his engine would soon fail, leaving Johansson to take over.
On lap 19 Piquet pitted for new tyres and on the following lap Prost overtook Senna to go into the lead.
Piquet now charged back and retook the lead just before Prost stopped for tires and so the order settled again with Piquet leading Senna and Prost, although the McLaren driver soon went out with an engine failure.
Senna's tires were put on his car and then taken off again and he was sent on his way, with the electrical problem not having been fixed.
Laffite got the better of Arnoux for third place, while fifth place went to Brundle, who had overtaken a troubled Berger in the closing laps.
Mansell then pulled out a four-second lead by Senna gradually reeled him in again, while Prost sat on his tail in his McLaren-TAG/Porsche, Piquet having gone out with engine trouble.
He pitted for fresh tires, emerging 20secs behind Senna with nine laps to go.

1987 Season

The 1987 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 41st season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 1987 Formula One World Championship for Drivers and the 1987 Formula One World Championship for Constructors, which were contested concurrently over a sixteen-race series that commenced on 12 April and ended on 15 November.
The World Championship for Drivers was won by Nelson Piquet for the third and final time.
He won just three races, compared to his teammate and main rival Nigel Mansell with six wins, but Mansell had to give up the challenge when he crashed in practice for the Japanese Grand Prix and injured his back.
The World Championship for Constructors was won by Williams - Honda for the second consecutive year.
The season also encompassed the Jim Clark Trophy and the Colin Chapman Trophy, which were respectively contested by drivers and constructors of Formula One cars powered by naturally aspirated engines .
This was the first season since 1976 that Renault were absent as an engine supplier in the sport due to ongoing company restructuring .
Pirelli 's withdrawal from F1 at the end of 1986 meant that Goodyear was the sole tyre supplier for 1987.
It was the first season since 1963 that the sport featured a standard single tyre supplier.
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Goodyear as Pirelli exited the sport after six seasons.
It had already been determined that turbocharged engines would be banned from 1989 on.
The FIA tried to make an early switch to naturally aspirated engines appealing: The FIA banned super-soft (and sticky) qualifying tyres to eliminate the unpopular practice of having to find a clear lap on tyres which were good for two flying laps at best.
The first race in April at the fast, rough and abrasive Jacarepagua Riocentro Autodrome in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil resulted in a dominant showing from Williams-Honda with Mansell ahead of Piquet.
The March team suffered a setback on race morning when it ran out of engines, and so the field was down to 22.
Senna pitted because of handling trouble and so Prost went into the lead and when he stopped for new tyres Boutsen briefly led before Piquet went back into the lead before his second stop.
Prost then went ahead again and led for the rest of the afternoon, never looking threatened as he did not have a third tire stop while his rivals Senna and Piquet did.
Mansell's race was disrupted by a puncture while Senna went out with engine failure and so Prost came home to win ahead of Piquet, Johansson, Berger, Boutsen and Mansell.
Ligier was back in action with Megatron-engined cars for Rene Arnoux and Piercarlo Ghinzani.

1988 Season

The 1988 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 42nd season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 1988 Formula One World Championship for Drivers and the 1988 Formula One World Championship for Constructors, which were contested concurrently over a sixteen-race series that commenced on 3 April and ended on 13 November.
The World Championship for Drivers was won by Ayrton Senna , and the World Championship for Constructors by McLaren - Honda .
McLaren's win tally has only been bettered or equalled in seasons with more than sixteen races; their Constructors' Championship tally of 199 points, more than three times that of any other constructor, was also a record until 2002 .
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Goodyear .
The FIA continued their strategy from 1987 , to make naturally aspirated engines more attractive, ahead of the ban on turbocharged engines from 1989 on: The FIA also introduced some new safety measures: The pre-season was a very contentious time, with many theories of the championship flying around: whether the Honda engines would prove successful with McLaren ; whether Ferrari would be able to continue the trend set by the last two rounds of 1987 , in which Gerhard Berger scored successive victories in Japan and Australia ; whether Williams would be able to continue their success without Honda and Nelson Piquet ; and whether reigning world champion Piquet could succeed in defending his title with the Honda-powered Lotus .
Both Berger and Michele Alboreto set times during the Rio tests which were significantly faster than anyone else, and faster than had been recorded during the 1987 Brazilian Grand Prix , prompting rumours that the Scuderia had been running their cars without the FIA's mandatory pop-off valve, or had the valve set at 1987's 4.0 bar limit.
Remarkable also, was Nigel Mansell 's recovery from his accident in Japan to score a front row position for his non-turbo Judd-powered Williams on his first race back.
Making Mansell's lap even more remarkable was that his Judd engined Williams FW12 was only timed at only 265 km/h (165 mph) on the long back straight compared to over 290 km/h (180 mph) for the Honda turbos of McLaren and Lotus .

1989 Season

The 1989 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 43rd season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
Alain Prost won his third Drivers' Championship, and McLaren won the Constructors' Championship.
The Drivers' Championship was decided in controversial circumstances at the penultimate race of the season in Japan , when Prost and teammate Ayrton Senna , who needed to win the race, collided in the closing laps.
Prost retired while Senna rejoined the track after a push start and crossed the line first, only to be disqualified for not rejoining the track correctly.
However, FIRST Racing withdrew from the championship before the opening race, leaving 20 constructors fielding a total of 39 cars, which remains the highest entry in the modern era.
This year was the first year of the new mandatory 3.5 litre engine formula following the FIA's ban on turbocharged engines following the conclusion of the previous season.
Renault also returned as engine supplier for the first time since 1986 with both Renault and Honda developing engines with a V10 configuration, an engine configuration never previously used in Formula One.
As of 2025 , this was the last time Honda and the same engine manufacturer won both the Formula One and MotoGP world manufacturers' titles in the same year.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1989 FIA Formula One World Championship.
FIRST Racing injected material into their chassis in order to pass a mandatory FIA pre-season crash test, however, it made its car significantly overweight and they withdrew before the opening Brazilian Grand Prix .
McLaren , having won fifteen of the sixteen races in 1988 , kept their successful driver line-up of 1985 and 1986 World Champion Alain Prost and defending champion Ayrton Senna .
They would drive the new MP4/5 powered by a Honda V10 engine .
The new 640 , designed by John Barnard , featured a semi-automatic electronic gearbox, the first of its kind, as well as the team's first 12-cylinder engine since 1980 .
The team had also done a deal with Renault , returning to F1 after a three-year break, that would see them have exclusive use of the French company's V10 engines.
Lotus kept their 1988 line-up of triple World Champion Nelson Piquet and Satoru Nakajima , but lost their Honda engines.
The new Lotus 101 , designed by Frank Dernie , used the Judd V8 engine instead.

1990 Season

The 1990 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 44th season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 1990 Formula One World Championship for Drivers and the 1990 Formula One World Championship for Constructors, which were contested concurrently over a sixteen-race series that commenced on 11 March and ended on 4 November.
Ayrton Senna won the Drivers' Championship for the second time, and McLaren - Honda won their third consecutive Constructors' Championship.
The championship featured a dramatic battle between Senna and former teammate Alain Prost , who had made the switch to Ferrari .
Prost mounted Ferrari's first title challenge for several years, and led the championship after three consecutive mid-season wins.
There, Senna took pole position only for Prost to beat him off the line; the Brazilian driver then drove into the Frenchman at the first corner, putting both out and thus settling the championship in Senna's favour.
Senna admitted the following year that the collision was deliberate, as he was furious that Prost had been able to start on the clean side of the grid and had decided that he was not going to allow the Frenchman to 'make the corner' should he lose the start.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1990 FIA Formula One World Championship.
He charged back but later retired with clutch problems.
Both Ferraris retired with Alain Prost retiring on lap 21 with an oil leak and Nigel Mansell on lap 49 with clutch problems.

1991 Season

The 1991 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 45th season of FIA Formula One motor racing and the 42nd season of the Formula One World Championship.
It featured the 1991 Formula One World Championship for Drivers and the 1991 Formula One World Championship for Constructors, which were contested concurrently over a sixteen-race series that commenced on 10 March and ended on 3 November.
Ayrton Senna won his third and last Drivers' Championship , and McLaren - Honda won their fourth consecutive Constructors' Championship .
1991 also saw the debuts of future world champions Michael Schumacher and Mika Häkkinen , as well as the retirement of three-time champion Nelson Piquet .
As of 2024 , this is the last World Championship season to be won by a Brazilian racing driver .
This season was the last time an F1 car with a manual gearbox won the championship, and the last V12 -powered car to do so.
It was also Pirelli 's last season as Formula One's tyre supplier until 2011 .
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1991 FIA Formula One World Championship.
On the next lap, Mansell's gearbox failed and soon afterward, on lap 36, Berger had fuel pump trouble, which forced him to retire.

1992 Season

The 1992 Formula One World Championship was the 46th season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 1992 Formula One World Championship for Drivers and the 1992 Formula One World Championship for Constructors, which were contested concurrently over a sixteen-race series that commenced on 1 March and ended on 8 November.
Nigel Mansell won the Drivers' Championship and Williams - Renault won the Constructors' Championship .
Mansell won the first five races of the season and went on to become the first driver in Formula One history to win nine World Championship races in a single season.
He sealed the championship at the Hungarian Grand Prix in mid-August, with five races still to run, becoming the first British driver to win the championship since James Hunt in 1976 .
Reigning champion Ayrton Senna won three races for McLaren - Honda but could only manage fourth in the championship, with Mansell's Williams teammate Riccardo Patrese finishing second and young Michael Schumacher third for Benetton - Ford .
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1992 FIA Formula One World Championship.
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Goodyear .
Brundle spun off on the first lap in the Benetton and then retired with a broken clutch.
The pit stops left the order unchanged, and it held until Alesi's engine failed on lap 41.
Andrea de Cesaris was sixth and in the points for one lap until his engine failed as well.
The cancellation of the United States Grand Prix on a street circuit in Phoenix , Arizona , originally scheduled for 15 March left a 3-week gap between the first two races, and there was some controversy surrounding the next race in Mexico: the venue for this race, the Hermanos Rodríguez Autodrome in Mexico City (an even higher altitude city) had an appallingly bumpy track surface, thanks to the circuit being located on a geologically active area.
Although the banking had been eased from the previous year, making the corner slightly slower, the bumps were still disastrous as Ayrton Senna hit a nasty bump in the Esses and crashed into a concrete wall, receiving severe bruising.
Schumacher got past on lap 7 and the rest were relieved of being stuck up when Senna retired with transmission troubles on lap 11.
Brundle was back in fourth on lap 44 but retired with engine trouble three laps later, ending the battle for fourth.

1993 Season

The 1993 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 47th season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 1993 Formula One World Championship for Drivers and the 1993 Formula One World Championship for Constructors, which were contested concurrently over a sixteen-race series that commenced on 14 March and ended on 7 November.
Alain Prost won his fourth and final Drivers' Championship .
As of 2024 , this is the last championship for a French Formula One driver .
His fierce rival, Ayrton Senna , finished runner-up in the championship after winning five races for McLaren - Ford ; these included his home race in Brazil , the European Grand Prix in wet conditions, and, for the fifth year in succession and sixth time in all, the Monaco Grand Prix .
Prost's Williams teammate, Damon Hill , took his first F1 victory in Hungary ; two further victories gave him third in the championship.
At the end of the season, Prost retired from Grand Prix racing, bringing an end to an era in which he and Senna had largely dominated the sport.
The Williams FW15C of that year, for example, featured hydraulically and electronically controlled active suspension , power steering , anti-lock brakes , fly-by-wire controls, traction control , a semi-automatic gearbox that could be switched over to fully-automatic , highly sophisticated onboard telemetry , pneumatic valve springs in the engine, and even a push-to-pass system that, at least in theory, made overtaking easier.
Nearly all cars in 1993 had an active suspension system, which kept the car's ride height consistent throughout a lap, making the aerodynamics of the car more efficient and effective.
Williams - Renault won their second consecutive Constructor's Championship this year, the sixth in all for Williams.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1993 FIA Formula One World Championship.
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Goodyear .
The Swiss Sauber team were the only new entry to the grid in 1993, with much-publicised backing from German car manufacturer Mercedes-Benz , who were funding the team's engine supplier, Ilmor .
Under the instruction of Mercedes, the engines were badged as "Saubers" for their debut season and "Concept by Mercedes-Benz" decals were placed on the car's engine cover.
Jordan switched from using Yamaha V12 engines to the new Hart V10 .
Well known British Formula One engine maker and tuner Hart Racing Engines were making their full time Grand Prix return in 1993 after last being in Formula One in early 1986 with their 4 cylinder 415T turbo engine .
Between 1990 and 1992, Brian Hart 's company had been involved in doing freelance tuning work for some Formula One teams using the old Cosworth DFR V8 engine including Arrows , Tyrrell , Larrousse and AGS , but returned in 1993 with their own engine.

1994 Season

The 1994 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 48th season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 1994 Formula One World Championship for Drivers and the 1994 Formula One World Championship for Constructors, which were contested concurrently over a sixteen-race series that commenced on 27 March and ended on 13 November.
Michael Schumacher won his first Drivers' Championship driving for Benetton .
As of 2025 , this is the last Ford -powered Drivers' Champion.
Williams - Renault won their third consecutive Constructors' Championship , the seventh in all for Williams.
1994 was one of the most tragic and controversial seasons in the sport's history.
The San Marino Grand Prix saw the deaths of Austrian rookie Roland Ratzenberger and Brazilian three-time World Champion Ayrton Senna , while a number of other incidents throughout the season resulted in injuries to drivers, mechanics , spectators and a track marshal .
The 1994 season would be the last Formula One season to see a fatality caused by an accident until the 2014 season when Jules Bianchi died as a result of his injuries following an accident at the 2014 Japanese Grand Prix .
While Schumacher initially dominated, his campaign was marred by a two-race suspension as a result of a disqualification from the British Grand Prix as well as losing a win at the Belgian Grand Prix .
The championship concluded in a highly controversial collision between the two rivals at the season-ending Australian Grand Prix , resulting in both drivers retiring and the title being handed to Schumacher, his first of seven world championship titles.
The 1993 champion Alain Prost did not attempt to defend his title, having retired from the sport.
A total of 46 drivers took part in this season with 14 making their F1 debut including numerous pay drivers, with all except Andrea Montermini making at least one race start.
Mercedes-Benz returned to the sport for the first time since 1955 , as an engine supplier to Swiss team Sauber .
The season also saw the first win for Ferrari since 1990 , whilst McLaren , following the departure of Senna, endured their first winless season since 1980 .
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1994 FIA Formula One World Championship.
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Goodyear .

1995 Season

The 1995 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 49th season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 1995 Formula One World Championship for Drivers and the 1995 Formula One World Championship for Constructors, which were contested concurrently over a seventeen-race series that commenced on 26 March and ended on 12 November.
Michael Schumacher won his second consecutive Drivers' Championship, and Benetton won the Constructors' Championship, the first and only Constructors' title for the Benetton team.
Schumacher won nine races en route to the championship, equalling the record set by Nigel Mansell in 1992 .
He also continued his rivalry with Williams - Renault driver Damon Hill , including collisions at the British and Italian Grands Prix.
Just like Honda in 1988 , Renault engines won all but one race in this season.
From 1996 car numbers would generally allocated based on the Constructors' Championship order of the previous season.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1995 FIA Formula One World Championship.
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Goodyear .
There was a threat of a drivers' strike over the terms of the 1995 Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) Super Licences , which allowed the FIA to demand promotional appearances and forbade the drivers from criticising the championship.

1996 Season

The 1996 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 50th season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
The championship commenced on 10 March and ended on 13 October after sixteen races.
Two World Championship titles were awarded, one for Drivers and one for Constructors.
Damon Hill won the Drivers' Championship two years after being beaten by a point by Michael Schumacher , making him the first son of a World Champion (his father Graham having won the title in 1962 and 1968 ) to have won the title himself as well as the only until Nico Rosberg , son of 1982 champion Keke Rosberg , won the title 34 years later in 2016 .
Hill, who had finished runner-up for the past two seasons, was seriously threatened only by his teammate, newcomer Jacques Villeneuve , the 1995 IndyCar and Indianapolis 500 champion.
Williams - Renault easily won the Constructors' title, as there was no other competitor strong enough to post a consistent challenge throughout the championship.
This was also the beginning of the end of Williams's 1990s dominance, as it was announced that Hill and designer Adrian Newey would depart at the conclusion of the season, with engine manufacturer Renault also leaving after 1997.
Two-time defending world champion Michael Schumacher had moved to Ferrari and despite numerous reliability problems, they had gradually developed into a front-running team by the end of the season.
Defending Constructors' Champion Benetton began their decline towards the middle of the grid, having lost key personnel due to Schumacher's departure, and failed to win a race.
This was the last championship for a British driver until Lewis Hamilton in 2008 .
Ferrari was given the numbers 1 and 2 after hiring the defending champion Michael Schumacher, despite finishing the previous year's Constructors' Championship in third, Benetton received numbers 3 and 4 for winning the Constructors' Championship, Williams got numbers 5 and 6 for finishing second, McLaren got 7 and 8 for finishing fourth, Ligier got 9 and 10 for finishing fifth, and so on, with the number 13 being skipped.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1996 FIA Formula One World Championship.
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Goodyear .
The 1996 FIA Formula One World Championship comprised the following races: Damon Hill won the season opener in Australia from his Williams teammate Jacques Villeneuve , with Ferrari's Eddie Irvine finishing third.
Pedro Diniz was involved in two major incidents during the race.
First he collided with Luca Badoer , whose Forti was flipped and landed upside down in the gravel, forcing the marshals to bring out the safety car.
Diniz managed to continue and made a pit stop as the safety car was preparing to pull in, only to retire when he came back onto the circuit and his Ligier burst into flames because a safety-valve in the fuel tank had jammed open.

1997 Season

The 1997 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 51st season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 1997 Formula One World Championship for Drivers and the 1997 Formula One World Championship for Constructors, which were contested concurrently over a seventeen-race series that commenced on 9 March and ended on 26 October.
The Drivers' Championship was won by Jacques Villeneuve under controversial circumstances: championship leader Michael Schumacher deliberately rammed him whilst trying to defend his race lead in the final race.
Schumacher came to a halt in the gravel while Villeneuve finished third, giving him enough points to secure the drivers' championship .
Schumacher was later deemed at fault for the accident by the FIA.
He kept his five race wins, but was stripped of his 2nd place in the championship, promoting Villeneuve's Williams teammate Heinz-Harald Frentzen to second in the championship.
The Constructors' Championship was awarded to Williams - Renault .
As of 2024, this is the last championship for a non- European driver, the last Constructors' and Drivers' championships for Williams , and the last championship won on Goodyear tyres.
It was also the last championship for a Renault -powered driver, until Fernando Alonso 's championship in 2005 .
Renault ended its official involvement in the sport at the end of the 1997 season, its engines having won six consecutive World Constructors' titles from 1992 to 1997 and won five of the six F1 drivers' titles over the same period.
Renault would subsequently return to F1 in an official capacity once more 2001 , although its engines would continue to be used from 1998 to 2000 being maintained and prepared by both Mecachrome and Supertec for that intervening three-season period.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1997 FIA Formula One World Championship.
The biggest news at the beginning of the 1997 season was Damon Hill , 1996 champion, being dropped by Williams in favour of Heinz-Harald Frentzen .
This was the only time in Arrows' history that the team had the number 1 on their car after signing the reigning World Champion.
Reliant on their Japanese engine partners Mugen-Honda , Japanese driver Shinji Nakano joined Prost besides Olivier Panis , who was retained from 1996 .
Jordan signed debutant Ralf Schumacher , Michael's younger brother.
He was rumoured to be partnered with Nigel Mansell , but the 1992 champion rejected the offer.

1998 Season

The 1998 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 52nd season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 1998 Formula One World Championship for Drivers and the 1998 Formula One World Championship for Constructors, which were contested concurrently over a sixteen-race series that commenced on 8 March and ended on 1 November.
After the factory withdrawal of Renault and the departure of designer Adrian Newey to McLaren, the Williams team and Jacques Villeneuve were unable to defend their respective championships.
Williams suffered their first winless season since 1988 .
Mika Häkkinen won his first World Drivers' Championship and McLaren won the World Constructors' Championship for the first time since 1991 .
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1998 FIA Formula One World Championship.
† All engines were 3.0 litre, V10 configuration.
At the end of 1997 , Renault withdrew as a direct engine supplier from Formula One and thus marked the first season since 1988 that Renault -branded engines were absent due to the company's privatisation plan .
As a result, the two teams running Renault engines were forced to source alternative suppliers.
Williams opted to run engines supplied by Mecachrome , who were working with Renault to develop the most recent iteration of their RS9 engine rebadged with the Mecachrome name.
Benetton sourced a similar rebadged Renault-based Mecachrome engine rebadging it Playlife after a fashion brand owned by the Benetton family.
They would not supply engines to other competing teams again until 2007 .
Arrows had bought out Brian Hart 's preparation company to build their own engines .
The Prost and Jordan teams swapped their engine suppliers from 1997: Prost now used Peugeot , whilst Jordan used Mugen - Honda .
Minardi switched from Hart to Ford engines.
Gerhard Berger retired at the end of 1997 after fourteen years in F1, leaving a vacant seat at Benetton .

1999 Season

The 1999 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 53rd season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 1999 Formula One World Championship for Drivers and the 1999 Formula One World Championship for Constructors, which were contested concurrently over a sixteen-race series that commenced on 7 March and ended on 31 October.
Defending champion Mika Häkkinen was again awarded the World Drivers' Championship .
His team McLaren just missed out: it was Ferrari that clinched the World Constructors' Championship by a margin of four points.
It was the final season for 1996 world champion Damon Hill .
It was also the last Drivers' Championship for McLaren until Lewis Hamilton in 2008 .
The following teams and drivers competed in the 1999 FIA Formula One World Championship.
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Bridgestone .
† All engines were 3.0 litre, V10 configuration.
After three decades in the sport, the Tyrrell team was sold to British American Tobacco and its entry was used by the new British American Racing (BAR) team, with Supertec engines replacing the Ford - Cosworth units of the previous season.
In 1998, Goodyear supplied tires to five teams, but when the company withdrew from the sport after 34 years, it left Bridgestone as the sole tire supplier.
The Mecachrome engines used by Williams in 1998 were rebadged as Supertec units.
In the years between, he had won the 1997 and 1998 CART championships for Chip Ganassi Racing .
Heinz-Harald Frentzen completed a straight swap with the younger Schumacher, taking the vacant seat at Jordan alongside 1996 champion Damon Hill .
Frentzen's 1998 teammate, the 1997 champion Jacques Villeneuve , moved to the newly founded British American Racing (BAR) team.
He was partnered with McLaren test driver and FIA GT1 champion Ricardo Zonta , one of three F1 rookies on the grid at the beginning of the season.

2000 Season

The 2000 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 54th season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
Michael Schumacher became Ferrari's first World Drivers' Champion in 21 years, having clinched the Drivers' title at the penultimate race of the season.
This season marked the first for future world champion Jenson Button .
Then misfortune struck Schumacher, who retired from three consecutive races with both Mika Häkkinen and David Coulthard scoring big.
Schumacher fought back winning the final four races of the season in convincing fashion, recording pole position on all those occasions.
The season held the record for the smallest number of drivers competing in a single season with only one driver change ( Luciano Burti deputising for an ill Eddie Irvine in Austria) putting the total at 23 (similar to 2002 season ).
This record stood until 2008 , where there were no driver changes, although the Super Aguri F1 team withdrew in the middle of that season.
Away from the front runners, following a largely unsuccessful foray into Formula One, Peugeot offically ended their involvement in the sport as an engine supplier at the end of 2000, having failed to win a Grand Prix since they entered F1 in an engine supply capacity in 1994 having supplied McLaren, Jordan and Prost.
However, their engine assets would be purchased by Asia Motor Technologies France and continue to be used under the Asiatech name for the 2001 and 2002 seasons.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 2000 FIA Formula One World Championship .
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Bridgestone .
† All engines were 3.0 litre, V10 configuration.
The main changes among the top teams were that Eddie Irvine was replaced by Rubens Barrichello at Ferrari and at Jordan , former world champion Damon Hill had retired, and was replaced by Jarno Trulli .
The McLaren pair of world champion Mika Häkkinen and David Coulthard started 1–2 ahead of the Ferrari pair of Michael Schumacher and Rubens Barrichello .
The McLarens pulled away from Michael Schumacher, but on lap ten, Coulthard retired with a misfire.
Häkkinen's engine blew up nine laps later, giving the lead to Schumacher.
Neither Jordan also lasted the race, Frentzen retiring with a hydraulic failure from second, and Trulli with an engine failure from fourth.
Schumacher, who was on a two-stop strategy took the lead within two laps, built up a 20-second gap, and pitted.
Coulthard was suffering from gearbox problems, and so was not quick enough.
He rejoined fourth after his stop, but his engine blew up soon after.
Häkkinen was starting to edge away from Michael Schumacher, until he had to retire with an oil leak.
There was controversy after the race when all the drivers in the top six with the exception of Fisichella were excluded because of problems with their wooden floors.
Notably, Jenson Button was sixth, and got his first ever championship point.
He also set the record for the youngest F1 driver to score a point.
Ferrari also had a big lead in the Constructors' Championship with 26 points, the second being Benetton with 8, and the third being Williams with 7.

2001 Season

The 2001 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 55th season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 2001 Formula One World Championship for Drivers and the 2001 Formula One World Championship for Constructors, which were contested concurrently over a seventeen-race series that commenced on 4 March and ended on 14 October.
Defending champions Michael Schumacher and Scuderia Ferrari were again awarded the World Drivers' Championship and World Constructors' Championship , respectively.
Schumacher won the title with a record margin of 58 points over David Coulthard ( McLaren ), after achieving nine victories and five-second places.
The season saw the debut of two future world champions: Fernando Alonso and Kimi Räikkönen as well as it being the last season for double world champion Mika Häkkinen .
The following teams and drivers competed in the 2001 FIA Formula One World Championship .
† All engines were 3.0 litre, V10 configuration.
Mercedes-Benz provided a new safety car : the SL55 AMG , which also performed its duty during 2002 and replaced the previous CL55 AMG .
Three high-profile drivers made their debuts in 2001: future world champions Fernando Alonso (with Minardi ) and Kimi Räikkönen (with Sauber ), and former CART champion Juan Pablo Montoya (with Williams ).
Renault returned to Formula One after three years to supply engines to the Benetton team.
Meanwhile, fellow French car manufacturer Peugeot withdrew from the sport after seven years, following a disastrous 2000 season as engine supplier to Prost .
Michelin made a comeback as tyre supplier, providing competition to Bridgestone for the first time since Goodyear left the sport at the end of the 1998 season .
Michael Schumacher started the new season where he had left off the year before, with a dominant win from pole position in the first race in Australia .
Arch-rival Mika Häkkinen lost second after a suspension failure, giving second to his teammate David Coulthard , with Schumacher's teammate Rubens Barrichello completing the podium.
The race was marred by the death of Graham Beveridge, a track marshal who was hit by debris after a collision between Ralf Schumacher and Jacques Villeneuve .
After everyone pitted to change tyres, they were down in 10th and 11th, but they changed to intermediate tyres , while all others had changed to full wets .

2002 Season

The 2002 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 56th season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 2002 Formula One World Championship for Drivers and the 2002 Formula One World Championship for Constructors, which were contested concurrently over a seventeen-race series that commenced on 3 March and ended on 13 October.
Defending champions Michael Schumacher and Scuderia Ferrari were again awarded the World Drivers' Championship and World Constructors' Championship , respectively.
He won a then-record eleven Grands Prix , surpassing the previous record of nine wins, jointly held by himself ( 1995 , 2000 and 2001 ) and Nigel Mansell ( 1992 ).
He also set the record for the largest number of races remaining on the calendar when the Drivers' Championship was clinched, securing the title with six races to go in the season.
Schumacher took the trophy home by a then-record 67-point margin over teammate Rubens Barrichello , beating his own record from the previous year (58 points over David Coulthard ) and also collected the highest points total in a season thus far (144 points), again beating his own record (123 points in 2001 ).
With their two drivers, Ferrari secured the Constructors' Championship with a points total that equalled the combined sum of points attained by all other constructors collectively.
This domination, coupled with a resulting decline in viewing figures, resulted in a major overhaul of the championship's sporting regulations for the following season .
This season marked the debut of future Grand Prix winners, Felipe Massa and Mark Webber .
The following teams and drivers competed in the 2002 FIA Formula One World Championship .
† All engines were 3.0 litre, V10 configuration.

2003 Season

The 2003 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 57th season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 2003 Formula One World Championship for Drivers and the 2003 Formula One World Championship for Constructors, which were contested concurrently over a sixteen-race series that commenced on 9 March and ended on 12 October.
Defending champions Michael Schumacher and Scuderia Ferrari were again awarded the World Drivers' Championship and World Constructors' Championship , respectively.
It was Schumacher's sixth World Drivers' title overall, breaking Juan Manuel Fangio 's 46-year-old record.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 2003 FIA Formula One World Championship .
† All engines were required to have ten cylinders and an engine capacity not exceeding 3000 cc, and all were of V10 configuration.
The 2003 FIA Formula One World Championship was contested over the following sixteen races: The Belgian Grand Prix scheduled for 31 August was cancelled due to a row over tobacco advertising, despite multiple races taking place without such advertising.
The 2003 season is notable for being the third and last season that fully-automatic gearboxes and launch control were allowed to be used.
Furthermore, the 2003 season saw the introduction of new regulations intended to increase F1's excitement, to halt falling global television audiences that had occurred during the previous season, and to help alleviate the financial difficulties of the smaller teams: Going into the season, Ferrari was the team to beat, having won the previous four Constructors' Championships .

2004 Season

The 2004 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 58th season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
It was the 55th FIA Formula One World Championship, and was contested over eighteen races from 7 March to 24 October 2004.
The championship was dominated by Michael Schumacher and Ferrari , with Schumacher winning the Drivers' Championship for the seventh and final time.
Schumacher's teammate Rubens Barrichello finished the championship in second with Jenson Button coming in third for BAR .
Ferrari won the Constructors' Championship for a record 14th time ahead of BAR and Renault .
In this championship, several records were broken.
Michael Schumacher won 13 races, breaking his record of 11 race wins in one season from 2002 .
He also broke the record for most consecutive World Drivers' titles (5) and Ferrari broke the record for most consecutive Constructors' titles (6).
The following teams and drivers competed in the 2004 FIA Formula One World Championship .
† All engines were 3.0 litre, V10 configuration.
Williams and McLaren, both privately owned teams, had engine supply agreements with BMW and Mercedes-Benz respectively, and Honda produced engines for BAR.
Sauber received Ferrari engines badged under the Petronas name and received sponsorship from the Malaysian oil and gas company.
From the 2004 season onward, all the teams that did not finish in the top four in the previous year's Constructors' Championship were allowed to run a third car in the Friday practice session before each Grand Prix, for testing purposes.

2005 Season

The 2005 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 59th season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 56th FIA Formula One World Championship, contested over a then-record 19 Grands Prix.
Fernando Alonso and the Renault team won the World Drivers' and World Constructors' championships, ending five years of dominance by Michael Schumacher and Ferrari since 2000 and also ending nine years of Ferrari , McLaren and Williams dominance triopoly since 1996.
Alonso's success made him the youngest champion in the history of the sport, a title he held until Lewis Hamilton 's 2008 title success.
Alonso's championship was also the first for a Renault -powered driver since Jacques Villeneuve 's championship in 1997 .
Räikkönen won seven races like Alonso but would have won more if not for a series of reliability issues, resulting in qualifying engine change penalties and retirements from the lead on three occasions.
Reigning champions Michael Schumacher and Ferrari had a poor season by their standards, with Bridgestone unable to compete with Michelin after the tyre-change ban that only affected the 2005 season.
Their only win came when Michelin deemed their own tyres unsafe after several incidents in the oval turn at Indianapolis .
Schumacher just held on for third in the Drivers' Championship, in spite of the superior pace of McLaren, underlining the disappointing season Montoya had.
The Colombian missed two races early on due to a tennis injury.
He then won three races, showing glimpses of pace, but was well beaten by his teammate Räikkönen in the championship.
The former Jaguar team was sold from Ford to Red Bull GmbH and made its debut as Red Bull Racing during the 2005 season.
The following teams and drivers were competitors in the 2005 FIA Formula One World Championship .
The most-noted aspect of the season was Ferrari 's lack of pace caused mainly by a new rule prohibiting tyre changes during the course of a race.
The Bridgestone tyres used by Ferrari could not find the right balance between performance and reliability, leaving the Michelin runners to battle for race victories.
Further rule changes emphasised the new focus on reliability, with engines required to last two Grands Prix without being changed.
However, constant technical failures meant neither the team nor Räikkönen were able to translate their speed into championship success.

2006 Season

The 2006 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 60th season of Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 57th Formula One World Championship which began on 12 March and ended on 22 October after eighteen races.
The Drivers' Championship was won by Fernando Alonso of Renault for the second year in a row, with Alonso becoming the youngest ever double world champion at the time.
Then-retiring seven-time world champion Michael Schumacher of Scuderia Ferrari finished runner-up, 13 points behind.
The Constructors' Championship was won by Renault, which defeated Ferrari by five points.
This season also marked the beginning of the usage of 2.4L V8 engines in Formula One from the 3.0L V10 engines that were used in the previous seasons, which continued till the end of the 2013 season.
2006 was also the first season since 1988 and 1997 respectively to feature multiple engine displacements and configurations, as Scuderia Toro Rosso were given special dispensation to continue using V10s.
For the first time since the 1956 season, no British constructor won any race and for the first time since the 1957 season all races were won by cars powered by an engine built by the same constructor that also built chassis.
In September 2006, Schumacher announced his retirement from Formula One at the end of the season, with 2003 and 2005 championship runner-up Kimi Räikkönen being announced as his replacement at Ferrari.
The season saw the debut of the future world champion, Nico Rosberg .
As of 2024, this is the last Constructors' Championship for Renault, and the last Drivers' Championship for a Spanish Formula One driver .
The 2006 championship also saw the last season of the Bridgestone-Michelin tyre war which had started in 2001 as Michelin withdrew from the sport at the end of this season leaving Bridgestone as the sole tyre supplier for 2007 , a position the Japanese company would retain until leaving the sport themselves at the end of 2010 and replaced by Pirelli from 2011 onwards.
Also as of 2024, this is the last Formula One season to feature more than one tyre supplier.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 2006 FIA Formula One World Championship .

2007 Season

The 2007 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 61st season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
The Drivers' Championship was won by Ferrari driver Kimi Räikkönen by one point at the final race of the season , making Räikkönen the third Finnish driver to take the title.
An appeal by McLaren regarding the legality of some cars in the final race could have altered the championship standings, but on 16 November, the appeal was rejected by the International Court of Appeal, confirming the championship results.
Räikkönen entered the final race in third position in the drivers' standings, but emerged as champion after the chequered flag, a feat first accomplished by Giuseppe Farina in 1950 .
A major talking point of the season had been an espionage controversy involving Ferrari and McLaren , which led to McLaren being excluded from the Constructors' Championship.
As a result, Ferrari clinched the championship at the Belgian Grand Prix .
Defending double Constructors' Champions Renault proved to be uncompetitive with their R27 car taking them to third in the constructors' standings (after McLaren's exclusion) and ended up win-less for the first time since the 2002 season.
The season also saw the debuts of future world champions Lewis Hamilton and Sebastian Vettel .
It was the first time since 1968 , the year in which sponsorship in the sport became widespread, that a team ran sponsor-free for an entire season.
Michelin 's withdrawal from F1 at the end of 2006 meant that Bridgestone was the sole tyre supplier for 2007.
As of 2024 , this is the last Drivers' Championship won by a Ferrari driver and the last drivers' title won by a Finnish driver to date in Formula One.
The following teams and drivers participated in the 2007 FIA Formula One World Championship.
Note that there is no car number 13, as is the historical tradition.
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Bridgestone.
The 2005 and 2006 World Champion Fernando Alonso switched to McLaren after five years at Renault .
Following the retirement of Michael Schumacher and Jacques Villeneuve , Alonso was the only driver on the grid in this season who had previously won a drivers' championship.

2008 Season

The 2008 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 62nd season of Formula One motor racing, recognised by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) – the governing body of motorsport – as the highest class of competition for open-wheel racing cars.
The championship was contested over eighteen races commencing in Australia on 16 March and ending in Brazil on 2 November.
The 2008 season saw the debut of the Singapore Grand Prix , which was held at the Marina Bay Street Circuit , in Marina Bay , Singapore and was the first Formula One race held at night .
Lewis Hamilton won the Drivers' title by a point – by overtaking Toyota's Timo Glock on the final corner of the final lap of the final Grand Prix of the season to claim the required 5th-place finish to win the championship – from Brazilian Felipe Massa , who had finished the race in first place; his team and family already celebrating the championship when the final overtake occurred.
Massa's teammate, the reigning World Champion Kimi Räikkönen , was ranked third, with two wins.
In winning the Drivers' title, Hamilton became the youngest driver ever to win the title (a record since surpassed by Sebastian Vettel winning the 2010 Drivers' title) and the first black driver to do so.
He was also the first British champion since Damon Hill in 1996 .
Eleven teams competed in the championship, although Super Aguri withdrew on 6 May due to financial troubles, having completed four races.
Fernando Alonso won the first World Championship race held in Singapore; however, only after teammate Nelson Piquet Jr. deliberately crashed to cause a Safety Car period which helped Alonso's strategy.
Some journalists dubbed this " Crashgate ".
Ross Brawn then bought the team, and renamed it to Brawn GP in February 2009 using the Mercedes-Benz engines.
Honda returned as an engine supplier from 2015 to 2021.
This was also the last Formula One season to race with grooved tyres, used since 1998 , before slick tyres returned to Formula One in 2009 .
2008 was the last season to feature 2001 runner up David Coulthard who retired after 14 years and 246 race starts.
As of 2024, this season marks the most recent World Drivers' Championship win by the driver of a McLaren (at that time powered by Mercedes-Benz engines), although Hamilton later won six more drivers' championships with the Mercedes team .
2008 also stands as the most recent World Constructors' Championship title win for Scuderia Ferrari .
There were a total of seven teams signed up to compete in the championship through an agreement with Formula One Management , with the other four major manufacturers in the Grand Prix Manufacturers' Association (GPMA) having signed a Memorandum of Understanding at the 2006 Spanish Grand Prix .
The following teams and drivers competed in the 2008 FIA Formula One World Championship .
Teams competed with tyres supplied by Bridgestone .
On 14 February 2006 the FIA president Max Mosley announced that all teams interested in competing in the 2008 World Championship would have a seven-day window during which they would have to submit an application to compete.
2005 and 2006 World Champion Fernando Alonso left McLaren after a single season to rejoin Renault .
Fisichella's place at Renault was taken by the team's test driver Nelson Piquet Jr. (son of the three-time World Drivers' Champion Nelson Piquet ).
2007 GP2 champion Timo Glock , who had also been the test driver for BMW Sauber , returned to a Formula One race seat in place of Schumacher.

2009 Season

The 2009 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 63rd season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 60th Formula One World Championship which was contested over 17 events commencing with the Australian Grand Prix on 29 March and ending with the inaugural Abu Dhabi Grand Prix on 1 November.
Jenson Button and Brawn GP secured the Drivers' Championship and Constructors' Championship titles, respectively, in the Brazilian Grand Prix , the penultimate race of the season.
It was both Button and Brawn's first and only championship success, Brawn becoming the first team to win the Constructors' Championship in their debut season.
2009 was the only season in which Brawn GP competed, before the team was sold to Mercedes for the 2010 season, also making them the only team ever to win 100% of championships in which they took part.
Button was the tenth British driver to win the championship, and following Lewis Hamilton 's success in 2008, it was the first time the championship had been won by English drivers in consecutive seasons, and the first time since Graham Hill (1968) and Jackie Stewart (1969) that consecutive championships had been won by British drivers.
Ten teams participated in the championship after several rule changes were implemented by the FIA to cut costs to try to minimise the financial difficulties.
There were further changes to try to improve the on-track spectacle with the return of slick tyres , changes to aerodynamics and the introduction of kinetic energy recovery systems (KERS) presenting some of the biggest changes in Formula One regulations for several decades.
The Brawn team, formed as a result of a management buyout of the Honda team , won six of the first seven races, their ability to make the most of the new regulations being a deciding factor in the championship.
Red Bull Racing caught up in an unpredictable second half of the season, with the season being the first time since 2005 that all participating teams had scored World Championship points.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 2009 FIA Formula One World Championship .
Teams competed with tyres supplied by Bridgestone .
Brawn renamed the team Brawn GP , and raced with Mercedes engines, but retained Honda drivers Jenson Button and Rubens Barrichello .
Force India also raced with Mercedes engines, after running with Ferrari engines in 2008 .
The only offseason driver change was following the retirement of Red Bull's David Coulthard after 14 years in Formula One.

2010 Season

The 2010 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 64th season of FIA Formula One motor racing .
Red Bull Racing won its maiden Constructors' Championship with a 1–2 finish in Brazil , while Red Bull Racing's Sebastian Vettel won the Drivers' Championship after winning the final race of the season in Abu Dhabi .
In doing so, Vettel became the youngest World Drivers' Champion in the 61-year history of the championship.
Vettel's victory in the championship came after a dramatic season finale at Abu Dhabi where three other drivers could also have won the championship – Vettel's Red Bull Racing teammate Mark Webber , Ferrari 's Fernando Alonso and McLaren 's Lewis Hamilton .
This was Bridgestone 's final season as the sole tyre supplier in Formula One as the company announced that it would not renew its contract at the end of the season.
After several months of deliberation, Pirelli was chosen as the tyre supplier for the 2011 season at the FIA World Motor Sport Council meeting in Geneva , in June 2010.
Before the start of the season, 2009 Drivers' Champion Jenson Button joined McLaren , while the 2009 Constructors' Champion, Brawn GP , was bought by German motor vehicle manufacturer Mercedes-Benz and was renamed as Mercedes GP .
The 2010 season saw the return of the most successful driver in Formula One history at that point, with seven-time World Champion Michael Schumacher coming out of retirement after a three-year absence since 2006.
As of 2024 , it was the last time a customer-engine independent team won the Constructors' Championship to date, before Red Bull Racing was promoted to Renault 's main works partner team from the 2011 to 2015 seasons.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 2010 FIA Formula One World Championship .
With the withdrawal of BMW and Toyota from the sport, engine diversity in Formula One dropped to a 30-year low, with just four engine producers powering the entire grid (Ferrari, Mercedes, Renault and Cosworth), the lowest since 1980 .
Teams competed with tyres supplied by Bridgestone .
USF1 officially withdrew from the championship in early March, following months of speculation and accusations from whistleblowers that the team had been crippled by mismanagement for months.

2011 Season

The 2011 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 65th season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
The original calendar for the 2011 Formula One World Championship consisted of twenty rounds, including the inaugural running of the Indian Grand Prix before the cancellation of the Bahrain Grand Prix .
Pirelli returned to the sport as tyre supplier for all teams, taking over from Bridgestone , marking their return to Formula One for the first time since the 1991 season .
Red Bull Racing and their driver Sebastian Vettel were the defending Constructors' and Drivers' Champions respectively, Vettel being one of five World Champions appearing on the grid.
Vettel defended his World Championship at the 2011 Japanese Grand Prix , becoming the youngest driver, at 24 years and 98 days, to do so while helping Red Bull Racing defend their Constructors' Championship.
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Pirelli .
Fifteen entry bids were reported to have been received, including ART Grand Prix , winners of several championships in feeder series; previous 2010 applicants Stefan Grand Prix and World Series by Renault team Epsilon Euskadi ; and a joint effort by 1997 World Champion Jacques Villeneuve with Durango , the former Italian GP2 team that had encountered financial difficulties.
However, the number of applicants declined, as ART Grand Prix and Cypher , the renamed USF1 operation, withdrew their entries, and the FIA decided ahead of the 2010 Italian Grand Prix that none of the prospective entrants met the minimum funding or engineering requirements, leaving the grid slot vacant.
Formula Renault 3.5 runner-up Daniel Ricciardo consistently set the fastest times over the three days, driving for new champions Red Bull Racing .
The Young Driver Tests were followed by another testing session – also held at Yas Marina – for the teams to test the tyres developed by new tyre supplier Pirelli .
Ferrari's Felipe Massa was the fastest during the tests, with many drivers declaring their satisfaction with the new tyres, particularly given Pirelli's short development window.
Sebastian Vettel experienced an explosive puncture on the final day, though an investigation by Pirelli attributed the incident to debris on the circuit rather than a critical error with the build of the tyre.

2013 Season

The 2013 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 67th season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 64th FIA Formula One World Championship, a motor racing series for Formula One cars, recognised by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) – the governing body of motorsport – as the highest class of competition for open-wheel racing cars.
Eleven teams and twenty-three drivers contested the nineteen Grands Prix that made up the calendar for the 2013 season, with the winning driver being crowned the World Drivers' Champion and the winning team the World Constructors' Champions .
The 2013 season was the final year the series used the 2.4-litre V8 engine configuration which was introduced in 2006 and for naturally-aspirated engines in general having been mandatory since 1989 as a 1.6-litre turbocharged hybrid V6 engine formula came into force for 2014 .
Sebastian Vettel successfully defended his World Championship, winning his fourth consecutive title in the fourth to last race of 2013.
In doing so he became the third driver in Formula One's sixty-four years to win four consecutive World Drivers' Championships .
It was one of the most dominant championship victories in the sport and the last won by a Red Bull driver until 2021 with Max Verstappen , it remains the last for a Renault -powered driver, as of 2024 .
Vettel won the championship by a then-record 155 points, which was broken 10 years later by Max Verstappen.
Vettel tied Schumacher's season record of 13 race wins and closed out the year with nine consecutive victories.
2013 would turn out to be the end of his title run, with Vettel remaining at four titles until his retirement in 2022.
Fernando Alonso finished second in the championship for Ferrari for the third time in four seasons, which would also be the last time he would win a race or end up on the championship podium for at least nine years.
Vettel's team Red Bull Racing , with the assistance of his teammate Mark Webber , successfully defended their World Constructors' Championship at the same race as their lead driver secured his title.
This was also the last year that the largely Constructors' Championship-based car numbering system introduced in 1996 was used.
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Pirelli .
Following a protracted period of negotiation, 2008 World Champion Lewis Hamilton announced that he would join Mercedes for the next three years.

2014 Season

The 2014 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 68th season of FIA Formula One motor racing.
It featured the 65th Formula One World Championship , a motor racing championship for Formula One cars, recognised by the sport's governing body, the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), as the highest class of competition for open-wheel racing cars.
In the nineteen Grands Prix of the season, a total of eleven teams and twenty-four drivers competed for the World Drivers' and World Constructors' championships.
The season was the first Formula One season since 1994 to see an accident with fatal consequences as Jules Bianchi died on 17 July 2015 after spending nine months in a coma following a crash at the 2014 Japanese Grand Prix .
In 2014, the championship saw the introduction of a revised engine formula, in which the 2.4-litre V8 engine configuration—previously used between 2006 and 2013 —was replaced with a new formula specifying a 1.6-litre (97.6 cu in) turbocharged V6 engine that incorporated an energy recovery system into its build.
The Indian Grand Prix was put on hiatus before being removed from the schedule entirely along with the Korean Grand Prix .
Sebastian Vettel started the season as defending World Drivers' Champion having secured his fourth consecutive Drivers' title the previous season at the 2013 Indian Grand Prix .
His team, Infiniti Red Bull Racing , also started the season as defending World Constructors' Champions having secured its fourth consecutive Constructors' title last season at the same Grand Prix in which its lead driver secured his title.
Mercedes driver Lewis Hamilton won his second World Drivers' Championship - his first for Mercedes, having previously won his first title in 2008 with McLaren and becoming only the second driver to win the title for the Silver Arrows since Juan Manuel Fangio did so in 1955 - with 384 points and 11 victories ahead of his teammate, Nico Rosberg with 317 points and 5 victories, ending Red Bull's 4 year championship dominance (which started in 2010).
Mercedes secured their first World Constructors' Championship as a full works constructor in Russia, and finished the season with 701 points, 296 points ahead of Infiniti Red Bull Racing.
The season also saw the first three wins of Daniel Ricciardo , who finished third in the championship for Infiniti Red Bull Racing.
Meanwhile, Ricciardo's teammate and defending champion Vettel endured a winless season making the German driver the first defending champion since Jacques Villeneuve in 1998 to have this unwanted distinction and last to date, as of 2024 .
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Pirelli .
This was the final season for Max Chilton , Jean-Éric Vergne , Kamui Kobayashi , Adrian Sutil , and Jules Bianchi , the latter of whom had a contract for 2015, before suffering a fatal accident at the 2014 Japanese Grand Prix .
Mercedes won their first World Constructors' Championship after taking a 1–2 finish in Russia.
Lewis Hamilton won his second World Drivers' Championship after a season-long battle with teammate Nico Rosberg .
The Mercedes team's run of victories ended in Canada where Rosberg and Hamilton were simultaneously hit with a power unit failure that put additional strain on their brakes.
Hamilton reclaimed ground in the championship standings in Britain winning after Rosberg was forced out with gearbox issues.
Rosberg claimed the win in Germany , while Hamilton recovered to third after an accident in qualifying saw him start from twentieth place.
Rosberg had to settle for second place in Belgium after contact with Hamilton early in the race, which ultimately prompted Mercedes to retire Hamilton's car.
Hamilton reclaimed the championship lead with a win in Singapore , while Rosberg was retired with a broken wiring loom.
Hamilton claimed the win in rain- and accident-shortened Japan , ahead of Rosberg.
The result was enough for Mercedes to secure their first World Constructors' Championship.
Red Bull Racing finished second overall, after suffering a difficult start to the season when Sebastian Vettel retired and Daniel Ricciardo was disqualified from the Australian Grand Prix.
Vettel went on to finish third in Malaysia, while Ricciardo retired, and both drivers scored points in Bahrain and China.
Ricciardo recorded his first podium finish with a third place in Spain, while Vettel recovered to fourth place after technical problems and a penalty for a gearbox change saw him start the race from fifteenth position.
Ricciardo finished in third place in Monaco, while Vettel retired due to an issue with his power unit.
Ricciardo took advantage of the Mercedes team's difficulties in Canada to claim his maiden Grand Prix victory—and Renault's first with a turbocharged engine since the 1986 Detroit Grand Prix —while Vettel finished third.
The team struggled in their home race in Austria, with Vettel retiring early with yet another engine issue and Ricciardo finishing eighth.
Both drivers recorded podium finishes in Singapore.
Vettel finished fifth in Brazil while Ricciardo retired when his front-left upright suspension was broken.

2017 Season

The 2017 FIA Formula One World Championship was the 71st season of Formula One motor racing .
It featured the 68th Formula One World Championship, a motor racing championship for Formula One cars which is recognised by the sport's governing body, the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) , as the highest class of competition for open-wheel racing cars .
Teams and drivers competed in twenty Grands Prix —starting in Australia on 26 March and ending in Abu Dhabi on 26 November—for the World Drivers' and World Constructors' championships.
The reigning Drivers' Champion Nico Rosberg was originally due to drive for Mercedes in 2017.
He announced his retirement from the sport in December 2016 after winning his first drivers' World Championship, so the 2017 season was the first since 1994 in which the reigning champion did not compete.
Mercedes started the season as the defending Constructors' Champion, having secured their third consecutive title at the 2016 Japanese Grand Prix .
Lewis Hamilton and Mercedes had to contend with a resurgent Ferrari team with lead driver Sebastian Vettel heading the championship for the first 12 rounds and challenging deep into the twenty race season.
At the conclusion of the championship, Hamilton won his fourth World Drivers' Championship title.
In the World Constructors' Championship, Mercedes won their fourth consecutive title at the 2017 United States Grand Prix and finished with 668 points.
The following teams and drivers took part in the 2017 Formula One World Championship.
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Pirelli .
Sebastian Vettel led the championship for the first 12 rounds (more than half the season) but never by more than 25 points.
Vettel's loss of self‑control when he chose to barge Hamilton in Baku was the most incendiary incident between the pair, in a season in which there was a friendly mutual respect.
However, Ferrari's challenge faltered towards the end of the season, with setbacks in Singapore and Malaysia (on tracks at which they were favoured to win), costing them vital points in both championships.
Hamilton was looking to regain the World Championship and his fourth overall while Vettel was looking to capture his first since 2013.
In the event of a tie at the conclusion of the championship, a count-back system was used as a tie-breaker, with a driver's best result used to decide the standings.

2018 Season

The 2018 FIA Formula One World Championship was the motor racing championship for Formula One cars and the 69th running of the Formula One World Championship .
Drivers and teams competed in twenty-one Grands Prix for the World Drivers' and World Constructors' championship titles.
The 2018 season saw two four-time World Champions, Lewis Hamilton and Sebastian Vettel , as the main Championship challengers.
It was the first time in Formula One history, two quadruple world champions would be competing for a fifth title, and the season was billed as the "Fight for Five" by journalists and fans.
The championship lead ebbed and flowed between the two title contenders, the points lead swapping hands five times throughout the year.
Hamilton clinched his fifth World Drivers' Championship title at the 2018 Mexican Grand Prix , with the team securing its fifth consecutive World Constructors' Championship title at the following race .
In the Constructors' Championship, Mercedes finished 84 points ahead of Ferrari , with Red Bull Racing - TAG Heuer in third, 152 points behind Ferrari.
In 2018, the championship saw the introduction of a new cockpit protection device, known as the "halo" .
The following teams and drivers participated in the 2018 FIA Formula One World Championship.
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Pirelli .
† All engines were 1.6 litre, V6 turbo hybrid configuration.
McLaren terminated their engine partnership with Honda and instead signed a three-year deal for power units supplied by Renault .
The team cited Honda's repeated failure to supply a reliable and competitive power unit as the reason for ending the partnership.

2019 Season

The 2019 FIA Formula One World Championship was the motor racing championship for Formula One cars which marked the 70th running of the Formula One World Championship .
Starting in March and ending in December, the championship was contested over twenty-one Grands Prix .
Drivers competed for the title of World Drivers' Champion , and teams for the title of World Constructors' Champion .
The 2019 championship also saw the running of the 1000th World Championship race , the 2019 Chinese Grand Prix .
Lewis Hamilton successfully defended the World Drivers' Championship for the second year running, winning his sixth championship title at the United States Grand Prix .
Mercedes successfully defended the World Constructors' Championship, securing the title for the sixth consecutive year at the Japanese Grand Prix to tie Ferrari's record from 1999 to 2004 .
Ten teams, with two drivers each, competed in the championship in 2019.
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Pirelli .
Red Bull Racing ended its twelve-year partnership with Renault and switched to full-works Honda engines.
The Sauber name disappeared entirely from the Formula One grid, but was still used in the Formula 2 and Formula 3 support categories with Charouz Racing System for one year.
The lead up to the 2019 championship saw several driver changes.
Sainz, who was on loan to Renault in 2018 , did not have his deal with Red Bull renewed and subsequently moved to McLaren to replace two-time World Drivers' Champion Fernando Alonso , who had earlier announced that he would retire from Formula One in 2019.
Sainz was partnered with 2017 European Formula 3 champion and Formula 2 runner-up Lando Norris , who replaced Stoffel Vandoorne , who would move to Formula E to race with the Mercedes-affiliated HWA Racelab , as well as join Mercedes as a reserve driver.

2020 Season

The 2020 FIA Formula One World Championship was the motor racing championship for Formula One cars which was the 71st running of the Formula One World Championship .
It marked the 70th anniversary of the first Formula One World Drivers' Championship .
The championship was recognised by the governing body of international motorsport , the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), as the highest class of competition for open-wheel racing cars .
Drivers and teams competed for the titles of World Drivers' Champion and World Constructors' Champion , respectively.
The championship was originally due to start in March, but the start was postponed until July in response to the COVID-19 pandemic .
The season was originally due to be contested over a record of 22 Grands Prix , but as some races were cancelled and new races were added to replace them, a total of 17 races were run.
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the first eight rounds of the championship were run behind closed doors , with the rest of the races being run at a reduced capacity or also behind closed doors due to the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Lewis Hamilton and Mercedes entered the season as the reigning World Drivers' and World Constructors' champions, respectively, after they both won their sixth championship in 2019.
At the Emilia Romagna Grand Prix , Mercedes secured their seventh consecutive Constructors' Championship making them the only team to win seven consecutive championships, breaking Ferrari 's record from 1999 to 2004 .
Mercedes also maintained the distinction of being the only team to win the championship since the 2014 turbo-hybrid engine regulation changes were enacted.
Hamilton equalled Michael Schumacher 's record of seven World Drivers' Championships at the Turkish Grand Prix and broke Schumacher's previous record of 91 career wins at the Portuguese Grand Prix .
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Pirelli .
Robert Kubica left Williams at the end of the 2019 championship and joined Alfa Romeo Racing as a reserve driver.
Nicholas Latifi , the 2019 Formula 2 Championship runner-up, replaced Kubica at Williams.

2022 Season

The 2022 FIA Formula One World Championship was a motor racing championship for Formula One cars , which was the 73rd running of the Formula One World Championship .
The championship was contested over twenty-two Grands Prix , which were held around the world, and ended earlier than in recent years to avoid overlapping with the FIFA World Cup .
Drivers and teams competed for the titles of World Drivers' Champion and World Constructors' Champion , respectively.
The 2022 championship saw the introduction of significant changes to the sport's technical regulations with ground effect aerodynamics reintroduced on Formula One cars for the first time since 1982 .
Max Verstappen , who was the reigning Drivers' Champion, claimed his second title at the Japanese Grand Prix , while his team, Red Bull Racing , achieved their fifth World Constructor Championship, and first since 2013 , at the following United States Grand Prix .
Defending Constructors' Champions, Mercedes failed to defend their championship and fell a distant third with their only win in São Paulo, having failed to adapt to the new regulations implemented by the FIA.
This was the final season for four-time World Champion Sebastian Vettel .
Seven-time World Champion Lewis Hamilton endured a difficult season with Mercedes , failing to secure either a pole position or Grand Prix win during the season, the first time either occurrence had happened in his Formula One career since it began in 2007 .
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Pirelli .
Initially, Red Bull Racing planned to take over Honda's engine programme and manage it in-house, under a new division called Red Bull Powertrains .
The decision was made after lobbying the other nine teams to negotiate an engine development freeze until 2025.
Red Bull Racing acknowledged that they would have left the championship if the engine development freeze had not been agreed to as they could not develop a brand new engine, and both Red Bull Racing and Renault were unwilling to resume their former partnership.
Honda later agreed to continue supplying Red Bull Racing and AlphaTauri for 2023 with engines for this season, which were rebadged to Red Bull Powertrains.
In addition to the assembly and maintenance of the engines, Honda continued to provide Red Bull Racing and AlphaTauri with technical and operational oversight during race weekends.
Kimi Räikkönen retired following the conclusion of the 2021 championship; Räikkönen won 21 races, and the 2007 World Drivers' Championship across a 19-season Formula career.
Zhou Guanyu , who finished third in the 2021 Formula 2 Championship , joined Alfa Romeo, in place of Antonio Giovinazzi , who had been at the team since 2019.

2023 Season

The 2023 FIA Formula One World Championship was a motor racing championship for Formula One cars , the 74th running of the Formula One World Championship .
The championship was contested over twenty-two Grands Prix , which were held around the world.
Drivers and teams competed for the titles of World Drivers' Champion and World Constructors' Champion respectively.
The season was dominated by defending champion Max Verstappen , who cruised to his third consecutive Drivers' Championship title at the Qatar Grand Prix , winning a record 19 out of 22 Grands Prix held and finishing on the podium 21 times (also a record number for most podiums in a season) by the end of the championship.
His team, Red Bull Racing achieved their sixth Constructors' Championship title, their second consecutively, at the preceding Japanese Grand Prix .
Red Bull Racing won 21 out of 22 Grands Prix, breaking the team record for highest percentage of Grand Prix wins in a season at 95.45%.
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Pirelli .
: Article 32.4c The Grand Prix debuts of Oscar Piastri , Logan Sargeant and Nyck de Vries at the Bahrain Grand Prix each counted as one of the mandatory sessions for McLaren - Mercedes , Williams - Mercedes and AlphaTauri - Honda RBPT , respectively.
Liam Lawson 's debut at the Dutch Grand Prix did not count, as Nyck de Vries had already taken the mandatory free practice slot for that car.
Honda returned as a named engine supplier to Red Bull Racing and AlphaTauri , with both teams badging the engines as Honda RBPT .
While Red Bull Powertrains had planned to take over assembly and maintenance of the engines from this season onward, it was later agreed that Honda would continue its technical support of Red Bull Racing and AlphaTauri until the end of 2025.
Sebastian Vettel retired at the end of the 2022 championship , ending his Formula One career after 15 full seasons.
Alonso's replacement was initially announced as the 2021 Formula 2 Champion and Alpine reserve driver, Oscar Piastri .
Gasly was replaced by the 2020–21 Formula E and 2019 Formula 2 Champion Nyck de Vries .
Although he had a contract to drive for the team in 2023, it was terminated during the 2022 championship by mutual agreement.
Ricciardo's seat was filled by Piastri, who made his Formula One debut.
His seat was filled by Logan Sargeant , who graduated from Formula 2 , making his Formula One debut and becoming the first American Formula One driver to compete since Alexander Rossi in 2015 .
During second practice for the Dutch Grand Prix , his third race of the season, Ricciardo broke a metacarpal bone in his left hand in a crash.
As a result, Red Bull Racing and AlphaTauri's reserve driver Liam Lawson substituted for Ricciardo, making his Formula One debut.
The Las Vegas Grand Prix made its debut, with the race held in November on a new street track featuring the Las Vegas Strip .

2024 Season

The 2024 FIA Formula One World Championship was a motor racing championship for Formula One cars and was the 75th running of the Formula One World Championship .
The championship was contested over a record twenty-four Grands Prix held around the world.
Drivers and teams competed for the titles of World Drivers' Champion and World Constructors' Champion , respectively.
Defending Drivers' Champion Max Verstappen started off the season with five wins in the first seven races, but was pressured by McLaren - Mercedes driver Lando Norris for the rest of the season after his RB20 fell behind Norris' MCL38 in terms of performance.
Despite this, Verstappen performed consistently at the front of the field and won his fourth consecutive Drivers' Championship title at the Las Vegas Grand Prix , while McLaren surpassed defending Constructors' Champions Red Bull Racing - Honda RBPT and achieved their ninth Constructors' Championship title at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix .
Their first Constructors’ Championship victory in 26 years, McLaren became the first constructor other than Red Bull Racing and Mercedes to win the title since Brawn in 2009.
All teams competed with tyres supplied by Pirelli .
: Article 32.4c Oliver Bearman 's debut for Ferrari at the Saudi Arabian Grand Prix did not count, as he only participated in the third practice session.
All driver and team combinations that competed in the final round of the previous season remained unchanged for the start of the next season for the first time in Formula One World Championship history.
He was replaced by Ferrari reserve and Formula 2 driver Oliver Bearman , who made his Formula One debut.
Kevin Magnussen of Haas received two penalty points for causing a collision at the Italian Grand Prix, taking his total to twelve penalty points in twelve months, and triggering an automatic race ban for the following Azerbaijan Grand Prix .
From the Italian Grand Prix onwards, Formula 2 driver Franco Colapinto replaced Logan Sargeant at Williams , making his Formula One debut.
He was replaced by the reserve driver Liam Lawson , who drove in the 2023 season in place of the injured Ricciardo at the same team, then known as AlphaTauri .
Reserve driver Jack Doohan made his debut at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix , where he replaced Esteban Ocon at Alpine , after Alpine required Ocon to vacate his seat to drive for Haas in the post-season test.
The 2024 calendar comprised a record twenty-four Grands Prix.